	title	journal	abstract	year	volume	DOI	screened	reviewer	access
Yang SZ; Liebner S; Winkel M; Alawi M; Horn F; Dorfer C; Ollivier J; He JS; Jin HJ; Kuhn P; Schloter M; Scholten T; Wagner D	In-depth analysis of core methanogenic communities from high elevation permafrost-affected wetlands	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	The organic carbon of permafrost affected soils is receiving particular attention with respect to its fate and potential feedback to global warming. The structural and activity changes of methanogenic communities in the degrading permafrost-affected wetlands on the Tibetan Plateau can serve as fundamental elements for modelling feedback interaction of ecosystems to climate change. Hence, we aimed at anticipating if and how the rapid environmental changes occurring especially on the high altitude Tibetan platform will affect methanogenic communities. We identified methanogenic community composition, activity and abundance in wetland soils with different hydrological settings, permafrost extent and soil properties and pinpoint the environmental controls. We show that despite a pronounced natural gradient, the Tibetan high elevation wetland soils host a large methanogenic core microbiome. Hydrogenotrophic methanogens, in particular Methanoregula, and H2-dependent methanogenesis were overall dominant although acetoclastic methanogens in addition to hydrogenotrophs were among the dominating taxa in a minerotrophic fen. Tracing the Methanoregula community of the Tibetan Plateau using public databases revealed its global relevance in natural terrestrial habitats. Unlike the composition, the activity and abundance of methanogens varied strongly in the studied soils with higher values in alpine swamps than in alpine meadows. This study indicates that in the course of current wetland and permafrost degradation and the loss in soil moisture, a decrease in the methane production potential is expected on the high Tibetan Plateau but it will not lead to pronounced changes within the methanogenic community structure. (C) 2017 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.	2017	111	10.1016/j.soilbio.2017.03.007	MAYBE	Dave	y
Kou YP; Li JB; Wang YS; Li CA; Tu B; Yao MJ; Li XZ	Scale-dependent key drivers controlling methane oxidation potential in Chinese grassland soils	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	Methane (CH4) oxidation plays a critical role in mitigating global warming. However, the key environmental drivers shaping CH4 oxidation rate at regional and sub-regional scales in grassland ecosystems remain poorly understood. In this study, we collected soils from 21 sites at the regional scale across three steppes of China, including grasslands in Inner Mongolia Plateau (IMP), Xinjiang Autonomous Region (XAR) and Tibetan Plateau (TP). Potential CH4 oxidation rate was measured, and the compositions and abundances of methanotrophs were analyzed by quantitative PCR (qPCR) and Miseq sequencing technique. The factors controlling CH4 oxidation potential at regional and sub-regional scales were evaluated by means of partial least squares path modeling (PLS-PM) and multiple regression on distance matrices (MRM). The results showed that the compositions and abundances of methanotrophs varied at different sub-regions. Type I methanotrophs were predominant in soils from the Inner Mongolia steppe and Xinjiang Autonomous Region, whereas pxmA methanotrophs mainly distributed in the Tibetan alpine steppe soil. Measured environmental variables explained the variations of CH4 oxidation potential well at both regional and sub-regional scales in these Chinese grassland ecosystems. However, the contributions of different variables to CH4 oxidation potential were scale-dependent. At the regional scale, total nitrogen (TN) was the environmental variable that best explained the potential CH4 oxidation rate, and its influence might be mainly associated with its effects on plant growth and methanotrophic community traits. At sub-regional scales, the main controlling variables were total organic carbon (TOC) and soil texture in Inner Mongolia steppe, aridity index (AI) and mean annual temperature (MAT) in Xinjiang Autonomous Region, and TN in Tibetan alpine steppe. These results further suggested that the impacts of environmental variables on CH4 oxidation rate were realized either through their effects on methanotrophic communities, and/or by affecting soil properties in the grassland ecosystems. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2017	111	10.1016/j.soilbio.2017.04.005	MAYBE	Dave	n
Chen YL; Xu TL; Veresoglou SD; Hu HW; Hao ZP; Hu YJ; Liu L; Deng Y; Rillig MC; Chen BD	Plant diversity represents the prevalent determinant of soil fungal community structure across temperate grasslands in northern China	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	Fungi play an important regulating role in terrestrial ecosystem functioning. However, their biogeographic distribution patterns along combined gradients of plant communities and environmental variables across regional spatial scales remain poorly understood. This knowledge gap is particularly pronounced in arid and semi-arid grassland ecosystems, which occupy one third of the terrestrial surface of China. Here, a regional-scale field investigation was conducted to collect soil samples from 290 plots at 52 sites along a 4000 km transect in temperate grasslands of northern China to assess the distribution patterns of fungal communities. The high-throughput Illumina sequencing revealed that soil fungal communities were dominated by Ascomycota, Basidiomycota and Zygomycota across the temperate grasslands. Fungal richness increased with plant species richness and mean annual precipitation (MAP). Bray-Cutis dissimilarities in soil fungal community composition between sites were significantly correlated with plant community composition, geographical distance, and abiotic factors including MAP, mean annual temperature, soil pH, and soil organic carbon. Variation partitioning analysis revealed that variation in fungal community composition was mainly explained by plant community composition, followed by geographical distance and abiotic factors. Structural equation models further highlighted the significant role of plant species richness in determining soil fungal richness. Taken together, these results suggest that the regional-scale distribution pattern of soil fungal communities is predominantly mediated by plant community composition, and also by abiotic factors and geographical distance in arid and semi-arid temperate grasslands. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2017	110	10.1016/j.soilbio.2017.02.015	YES	Dave	y
Lohan KMP; Fleischer RC; Carney KJ; Holzer KK; Ruiz GM	Molecular characterisation of protistan species and communities in ships ballast water across three US coasts	DIVERSITY AND DISTRIBUTIONS	AimWe characterised protistan taxa in ships ballast water (BW) arriving to port systems across three U.S. coasts. Our goals were to compare (1) diversity and (2) community composition of protists in BW among and between port systems. LocationChesapeake Bay in Virginia (Port of Hampton Roads), Galveston Bay in Texas (Ports of Texas City, Houston and Bayport) and Prince William Sound in Alaska (Port of Valdez). MethodsWe collected 61 BW samples from 39 vessels from May to August 2013. We conducted amplicon-based high-throughput sequencing (HTS) using the hypervariable V4 domain of the small subunit (SSU) gene of the ribosomal RNA (rRNA) complex to identify protistan taxa. ResultsWe detected 8,561 OTUs from protistan taxa, including 35 taxonomic groups. We found high protistan diversity in the BW entering all three port systems, with the dominant taxa belonging to the Alveolata, Rhizaria and Stramenopiles. Thirty-eight taxa were found in high relative abundance (>10,000 sequences), and some were recovered from multiple samples within and across ports, indicating both a high relative abundance and frequency of introduction events. The composition of the protistan communities entering each of the port systems appeared to vary depending on BW source, with those entering Valdez being consistently more similar to each other than those entering other port systems. Main conclusionsThis study is the most comprehensive assessment of protistan diversity in BW and has important implications for microbial biogeography and invasions. Ships BW is importing distinct and diverse protistan communities to U.S. coasts with high propagule pressure for some taxa, creating opportunity for invasion by novel taxa. Further, our results demonstrate the broad-scale movement of marine protists that has occurred through BW, highlighting a discrepancy between the large magnitude of introductions and limited number of known microbial invasions.	2017	23	10.1111/ddi.12550	MAYBE	Dave	y
Wang XB; Lu XT; Yao J; Wang ZW; Deng Y; Cheng WX; Zhou JZ; Han XG	Habitat-specific patterns and drivers of bacterial beta-diversity in Chinas drylands	ISME JOURNAL	The existence of biogeographic patterns among most free-living microbial taxa has been well established, yet little is known about the underlying mechanisms that shape these patterns. Here, we examined soil bacterial beta-diversity across different habitats in the drylands of northern China. We evaluated the relative importance of environmental factors versus geographic distance to a distance-decay relationship, which would be explained by the relative effect of basic ecological processes recognized as drivers of diversity patterns in macrobial theoretical models such as selection and dispersal. Although the similarity of bacterial communities significantly declined with increasing geographic distance, the distance-decay slope and the relative importance of factors driving distance-decay patterns varied across different habitats. A strong distance-decay relationship was observed in the alpine grassland, where the community similarity was influenced only by the environmental factors. In contrast, geographic distance was solely responsible for community similarity in the desert. Even the average compositional similarity among locations in the desert was distinctly lower compared with those in other habitats. We found no evidence that dispersal limitation strongly influenced the beta-diversity of bacterial communities in the desert grassland and typical grassland. Together, our results provide robust evidence of habitat specificity for microbial diversity patterns and their underlying drivers. Our findings suggest that microorganisms also have multiple drivers of diversity patterns and some of which may be parallel to some fundamental processes for explaining biodiversity patterns in macroorganisms.	2017	11	10.1038/ismej.2017.11	YES	Dave	y
Suzuki S; Kaneko R; Kodama T; Hashihama F; Suwa S; Tanita I; Furuya K; Hamasaki K	Comparison of community structures between particle-associated and free-living prokaryotes in tropical and subtropical Pacific Ocean surface waters	JOURNAL OF OCEANOGRAPHY	The subtropical and tropical regions of the Pacific Ocean are less productive than other oceanic regions. Although particle association should be an important strategy for heterotrophic prokaryotes to survive in such environments, we have little information on particle-associated (PA) prokaryotes in these regions. The specific aim of this study was to determine bacterial and archaeal community structures in the PA assemblage in comparison to the free-living (FL) assemblage in the North Pacific Subtropical Gyre, the South Pacific Subtropical Gyre, and an eastern equatorial region of the Pacific Ocean. Community profiles and phylogenetic identities were obtained by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis, 454-pyrosequencing, and cloning followed by Sanger sequencing of 16Sr RNA gene amplicons. The distribution patterns of some abundant groups in three regions and two lifestyles (PA and FL) are shown in this study. Also, the PA community structures of bacteria differed from the FL ones and exhibited higher diversity than the FL ones, while the archaeal community structures did not show significant differences between PA and FL assemblages. We found that specific phylotypes of Gammaproteobacteria and Flavobacteria were abundant in PA bacterial assemblages, suggesting that they prefer to attach and consume particulate organic matter. In summary, the surface seawater PA assemblages represent very different bacterial and archaeal community structures between three different oceanic regions, each of which had distinct PA and FL community structures. These results imply that environmental factors determine microbial community structures.	2017	73	10.1007/s10872-016-0410-0	MAYBE	Dave	n
Regan K; Stempfhuber B; Schloter M; Rasche F; Prati D; Philippot L; Boeddinghaus RS; Kandeler E; Marhan S	Spatial and temporal dynamics of nitrogen fixing, nitrifying and denitrifying microbes in an unfertilized grassland soil	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	The microbial groups of nitrogen fixers, ammonia oxidizers, and denitrifiers largely drive the inorganic nitrogen cycle in temperate terrestrial ecosystems. Their spatial and temporal dynamics, however, vary depending on the studied scale. The present study aimed to fill a knowledge gap by providing an explicit picture of spatial and temporal dynamics of a subset of these soil microorganisms at the plot scale. We selected an unfertilized perennial grassland, where nitrogen cycling is considered to be efficient and tightly coupled to plant growth. At six times over one growing season 60 soil samples were taken from a 10 m x 10 m area and abundances of marker genes for total archaea and bacteria (16S rRNA), nitrogen fixing bacteria (nifH), ammonia oxidizing archaea (amoA AOA) and bacteria (amoA AOB), and denitrifying bacteria (nirS, nirK and nosZ) were determined by qPCR. Potential nitrification activity (PNA) and denitrifying enzyme activity (DEA) were determined. Seasonal changes in abundance patterns of marker genes were detected, and were associated with changes in substrate availability associated with plant growth stages. Potential nitrification and denitrification enzyme activities were strongly spatially structured at the studied scale, corresponding to periods of rapid plant growth, June and October, and their spatial distributions were similar, providing visual evidence of highly localized spatial and temporal conditions at this scale. Temporal variability in the N -cycling communities versus the stability of their respective potential activities provided evidence of both short-lived temporal niche partitioning and a degree of microbial functional redundancy. Our results indicate that in an unfertilized grassland, at the meter scale, abundances of microbial N-cycling organisms can exhibit transient changes, while nitrogen cycling processes remain stable. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2017	109	10.1016/j.soilbio.2016.11.011	MAYBE	Dave	y
Lacap-Bugler DC; Lee KK; Archer S; Gillman LN; Lau MCY; Leuzinger S; Lee CK; Maki T; McKay CP; Perrott JK; de los Rios-Murillo A; Warren-Rhodes KA; Hopkins DW; Pointing SB	Global Diversity of Desert Hypolithic Cyanobacteria	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Global patterns in diversity were estimated for cyanobacteria-dominated hypolithic communities that colonize ventral surfaces of quartz stones and are common in desert environments. A total of 64 hypolithic communities were recovered from deserts on every continent plus a tropical moisture sufficient location. Community diversity was estimated using a combined t-RFLP fingerprinting and high throughput sequencing approach. The t-RFLP analysis revealed desert communities were different from the single non-desert location. A striking pattern also emerged where Antarctic desert communities were clearly distinct from all other deserts. Some overlap in community similarity occurred for hot, cold and tundra deserts. A further observation was that the producer-consumer ratio displayed a significant negative correlation with growing season, such that shorter growing seasons supported communities with greater abundance of producers, and this pattern was independent of macroclimate. High-throughput sequencing of 16S rRNA and nifH genes from four representative samples validated the t-RFLP study and revealed patterns of taxonomic and putative diazotrophic diversity for desert communities from the Taklimakan Desert, Tibetan Plateau, Canadian Arctic and Antarctic. All communities were dominated by cyanobacteria and among these 21 taxa were potentially endemic to any given desert location. Some others occurred in all but the most extreme hot and polar deserts suggesting they were relatively less well adapted to environmental stress. The t-RFLP and sequencing data revealed the two most abundant cyanobacterial taxa were Phormidium in Antarctic and Tibetan deserts and Chroococcidiopsis in hot and cold deserts. The Arctic tundra displayed a more heterogenous cyanobacterial assemblage and this was attributed to the maritime-influenced sampling location. The most abundant heterotrophic taxa were ubiquitous among samples and belonged to the Acidobacteria, Actinobacteria, Bacteroidetes, and Proteobacteria. Sequencing using nitrogenase gene-specific primers revealed all putative diazotrophs were Proteobacteria of the orders Burkholderiales, Rhizobiales, and Rhodospirillales. We envisage cyanobacterial carbon input to the system is accompanied by nitrogen fixation largely from non-cyanobacterial taxa. Overall the results indicate desert hypoliths worldwide are dominated by cyanobacteria and that growing season is a useful predictor of their abundance. Differences in cyanobacterial taxa encountered may reflect their adaptation to different moisture availability regimes in polar and non-polar deserts.	2017	8	10.3389/fmicb.2017.00867	MAYBE	Dave	y
Kellogg CA; Goldsmith DB; Gray MA	Biogeographic Comparison of Lophelia-Associated Bacterial Communities in the Western Atlantic Reveals Conserved Core Microbiome	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Over the last decade, publications on deep-sea corals have tripled. Most attention has been paid to Lophelia pertusa, a globally distributed scleractinian coral that creates critical three-dimensional habitat in the deep ocean. The bacterial community associated with L. pertusa has been previously described by a number of studies at sites in the Mediterranean Sea, Norwegian fjords, off Great Britain, and in the Gulf of Mexico (GOM). However, use of different methodologies prevents direct comparisons in most cases. Our objectives were to address intra-regional variation and to identify any conserved bacterial core community. We collected samples from three distinct colonies of L. pertusa at each of four locations within the western Atlantic: three sites within the GOM and one off the east coast of the United States. Amplicon libraries of 16S rRNA genes were generated using primers targeting the V4-V5 hypervariable region and 454 pyrosequencing. The dominant phylum was Proteobacteria (75-96%). At the family level, 80-95% of each sample was comprised of five groups: Pirellulaceae, Pseudonocardiaceae, Rhodobacteraceae, Sphingomonadaceae, and unclassified Oceanospirillales. Principal coordinate analysis based on weighted UniFrac distances showed a clear distinction between the GOM and Atlantic samples. Interestingly, the replicate samples from each location did not always cluster together, indicating there is not a strong site-specific influence. The core bacterial community, conserved in 100% of the samples, was dominated by the operational taxonomic units of genera Novosphingobium and Pseudonocardia, both known degraders of aromatic hydrocarbons. The sequence of another core member, Propionibacterium, was also found in prior studies of L. pertusa from Norway and Great Britain, suggesting a role as a conserved symbiont. By examining more than 40,000 sequences per sample, we found that GOM samples were dominated by the identified conserved core sequences, whereas open Atlantic samples had a much higher proportion of locally consistent bacteria. Further, predictive functional profiling highlights the potential for the L. pertusa microbiome to contribute to chemoautotrophy, nutrient cycling, and antibiotic production.	2017	8	10.3389/fmicb.2017.00796	MAYBE	Dave	y
Becerra-Castro C; Lopes AR; Teixeira S; Silva MEF; Pimenta E; Manaia CM; Nunes OC	Characterization of bacterial communities from Masseiras, a unique Portuguese greenhouse agricultural system	ANTONIE VAN LEEUWENHOEK INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF GENERAL AND MOLECULAR MICROBIOLOGY	Masseiras is an ancient Portuguese agriculture system, where soil was developed from sand dunes enriched with seaweeds over more than a century. Due to the importance for the local economy, this system evolved for greenhouse structures. In this study we compared the bacterial community composition and structure of Masseiras soil, aiming at assessing the potential impact of different agricultural practices. The bulk soil of two greenhouses (following or not the recommended agriculture good practices, FGP and NFGP, respectively) was compared based on their physicochemical properties and bacterial community. In both FGP and NFGP, Proteobacteria, Acidobacteria, Actinobacteria, Bacteroidetes, Firmicutes, and Gemmatimonadetes were in a proportion of 5:1:1:1:1:1. However, the bacterial community of soil FGP was richer and more diverse than that of soil NFGP. Members of the classes Bacilli and Gemm-1, with higher relative abundance in NFGP and FGP, respectively, were those contributing most for distinguishing the bacterial communities of both soils. The differences in the structure of the bacterial communities correlated (Mantel test) with some soil physicochemical properties, such as electrical conductivity and nitrate and Zn contents, which were significantly higher in soil NFGP than in soil FGP.	2017	110	10.1007/s10482-017-0833-7	MAYBE	Dave	n
Becker JC; Rodibaugh KJ; Hahn D; Nowlin WH	Bacterial community composition and carbon metabolism in a subtropical riverscape	HYDROBIOLOGIA	To better understand the interaction between the abundance and composition of bacterial communities, physicochemical conditions, and bacterial metabolic function, we studied the patterns of bacterial community composition and metabolic function in relation to nutrients, land use, and network position in a large subtropical river. Composition varied across the watershed, and with variation in nutrients in particular. Although these changes were partially driven by overall abundance, bacterial groups responded to nutrients differently across the watershed. Most groups were correlated with suspended particulate materials, yet, abundance of beta-proteobacteria was highest with elevated nitrate, and abundance of Actinobacteria was highest with elevated soluble reactive phosphate. Land use weakly influenced composition. Landscape position influenced composition, with downstream mainstem riverine sites differing from more upstream and tributary sites. Both production and respiration were influenced by temperature and organic carbon, but we found that production and growth efficiency were not directly related. Production peaked at intermediate levels of abundance, but no groups were correlated with production. Respiration by free-floating bacteria was positively correlated with proportional abundance of alpha-proteobacteria, gamma-proteobacteria, and Actinobacteria. Finally, we found that land use was a relatively weak influence on community composition, but that variation in nutrients was relatively important for both composition and function.	2017	792	10.1007/s10750-016-3058-2	MAYBE	Dave	n
Yao MJ; Rui JP; Niu HS; Hedenec P; Li JB; He ZL; Wang JM; Cao WD; Li XZ	The differentiation of soil bacterial communities along a precipitation and temperature gradient in the eastern Inner Mongolia steppe	CATENA	Understanding the differentiation of soil bacterial communities under precipitation and temperature gradients is crucial for assessing the impacts of environmental filters on ecosystem structure and function. Here we investigated spatial variations of bacterial communities along a precipitation and temperature transect in the eastern Inner Mongolia steppe, China. The aims are to understand the biogeographic pattern and key drivers shaping soil bacterial communities along the transect. Our results shoved that the soil bacterial community along the 451-km transect exhibited the distance-decay relationship, decreasing in community similarity with geographic distance. Obvious changes in the bacterial community structure occurred at an annual precipitation from 215 to 261 mm, which was close to the boundary between arid and semi-arid systems. The relative abundances of Proteobacteria, Bacteroidetes, and Acidobacteria increased with precipitation, while those of Actinobacteria, Chloroflexi, and Gemmatimonadetes decreased. Environmental filtering was observed to be the key in shaping bacterial biogeographic patterns, and climate conditions exert indirect effects on soil bacterial communities mainly through direct effects on soil properties. Soil pH and plant coverage were important to soil bacterial communities in both arid and semi-arid steppes. Our findings provided insights for understanding the linkages among geographic distance, environmental filters, and soil bacterial communities in Eurasian steppe ecosystems. (C) 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2017	152	10.1016/j.catena.2017.01.007	YES	Dave	y
Nino-Garcia JP; Ruiz-Gonzalez C; del Giorgio PA	Exploring the Ecological Coherence between the Spatial and Temporal Patterns of Bacterioplankton in Boreal Lakes	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	One of the major contemporary challenges in microbial ecology has been to discriminate the reactive core from the random, unreactive components of bacterial communities. In previous work we used the spatial abundance distributions of bacterioplankton across boreal lakes of Quebec to group taxa into four distinct categories that reflect either hydrology-mediated dispersal along the aquatic network or environmental selection mechanisms within lakes. Here, we test whether this categorization derived from the spatial distribution of taxa is maintained over time, by analyzing the temporal dynamics of the operational taxonomic units (OTUs) within those spatially derived categories along an annual cycle in the oligotrophic lake Croche (Quebec, Canada), and assessing the coherence in the patterns of abundance, occurrence, and environmental range of these OTUs over space and time. We report that the temporal dynamics of most taxa within a single lake are largely coherent with those derived from their spatial distribution over large spatial scales, suggesting that these properties must be intrinsic of particular taxa. We also identified a set of rare taxa cataloged as having a random occupancy based on their spatial distribution, but which showed clear seasonality and abundance peaks along the year, yet these comprised a very small fraction of the total rare OTUs. We conclude that the presence of most rare bacterioplankton taxa in boreal lakes is random, since both their temporal and spatial dynamics suggest links to passive downstream transport and persistence in freshwater networks, rather than environmental selection.	2017	8	10.3389/fmicb.2017.00636	MAYBE	Dave	y
Chen YJ; Kuang JL; Jia P; Cadotte MW; Huang LN; Li JT; Liao B; Wang PD; Shu WS	Effect of Environmental Variation on Estimating the Bacterial Species Richness	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Estimating the species richness of microorganisms is of great importance in predicting, maintaining and managing microbial communities. Although the roles of environmental heterogeneity and geographical distance in structuring soil microbial communities have been studied intensively, the effects of environmental and spatial variation on the species richness estimation have not been examined. To this end, we have explored their effects on estimating the belowground soil bacterial species richness within a 50 ha forest dynamic plot (FDP) using a published massive sequencing dataset with intensive sampling scheme. Our resampling analyses showed that, for a given sequencing depth, increasing the sample size could significantly enhance the detection of rare species by capturing more of the environmental and spatial variation, thus obtaining higher observed and estimated species richness. Additionally, the estimates of bacterial species richness were significantly and positively correlated with environmental variation among samples, indicating that environmental filtering was the main mechanism driving the processes of community assembly for belowground soil bacterial communities in the plot. Moreover, this effect of environmental variation could be markedly alleviated when the sample size was higher than 450, and thus we predicted that there were at least 42,866 soil bacterial species based on 8,296,878 sequences from 550 samples in the whole 50 ha FDP. Furthermore, we built a power law environmental heterogeneity equation (EHE) as a decision-tool to determine an approximate sample size for comprehensively capturing the environmental gradient within a given habitat. Collectively, this work further links the inherent environmental and spatial variation to the estimation of soil bacterial species richness within a given region, and provides a useful tool of sampling design for a better understanding of microbial biogeographic patterns and estimation of microbial biodiversity.	2017	8	10.3389/fmicb.2017.00690	MAYBE	Dave	y
Li YT; Adams J; Shi Y; Wang H; He JS; Chu HY	Distinct Soil Microbial Communities in habitats of differing soil water balance on the Tibetan Plateau	SCIENTIFIC REPORTS	Global change may be a severe threat to natural and agricultural systems, partly through its effects in altering soil biota and processes, due to changes in water balance. We studied the potential influence of changing soil water balance on soil biota by comparing existing sites along a natural water balance gradient in the Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau. In this study, the community structure of bacteria, archaea and eukaryotes differed between the different soil water conditions. Soil moisture was the strongest predictor of bacterial and eukaryotic community structure, whereas C/N ratio was the key factor predicting variation in the archaeal community. Bacterial and eukaryotic diversity was quite stable among different soil water availability, but archaeal diversity was dramatically different between the habitats. The auxotype of methanogens also varied significantly among different habitats. The covarying soil properties among habitats shaped the community structure of soil microbes, with archaea being particularly sensitive in terms of community composition, diversity and functional groups. Bacterial and archaeal phylogenetic community turnover was mainly driven by deterministic processes while stochastic processes had stronger effects on eukaryotic phylogenetic community turnover. Our work provides insight into microbial community, functional group and phylogenetic turnover under different soil conditions in low-latitude alpine ecosystem.	2017	7	10.1038/srep46407	MAYBE	Dave	n
Ramalho MO; Bueno OC; Moreau CS	Microbial composition of spiny ants (Hymenoptera: Formicidae: Polyrhachis) across their geographic range	BMC EVOLUTIONARY BIOLOGY	Background: Symbiotic relationships between insects and bacteria are found across almost all insect orders, including Hymenoptera. However there are still many remaining questions about these associations including what factors drive host-associated bacterial composition. To better understand the evolutionary significance of this association in nature, further studies addressing a diversity of hosts across locations and evolutionary history are necessary. Ants of the genus Polyrhachis (spiny ants) are distributed across the Old World and exhibit generalist diets and habits. Using Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) and bioinformatics tools, this study explores the microbial community of >80 species of Polyrhachis distributed across the Old World and compares the microbiota of samples and related hosts across different biogeographic locations and in the context of their phylogenetic history. Results: The predominant bacteria across samples were Enterobacteriaceae (Blochmannia - with likely many new strains), followed by Wolbachia (with multiple strains), Lactobacillus, Thiotrichaceae, Acinetobacter, Nocardia, Sodalis, and others. We recovered some exclusive strains of Enterobacteriaceae as specific to some subgenera of Polyrhachis, corroborating the idea of coevolution between host and bacteria for this bacterial group. Our correlation results (partial mantel and mantel tests) found that host phylogeny can influence the overall bacterial community, but that geographic location had no effect. Conclusions: Our work is revealing important aspects of the biology of hosts in structuring the diversity and abundance of these host-associated bacterial communities including the role of host phylogeny and shared evolutionary history.	2017	17	10.1186/s12862-017-0945-8	YES	Dave	n
Li DY; Chen HQ; Mao BY; Yang Q; Zhao JX; Gu ZN; Zhang H; Chen YQ; Chen W	Microbial Biogeography and Core Microbiota of the Rat Digestive Tract	SCIENTIFIC REPORTS	As a long-standing biomedical model, rats have been frequently used in studies exploring the correlations between gastrointestinal (GI) bacterial biota and diseases. In the present study, luminal and mucosal samples taken along the longitudinal axis of the rat digestive tract were subjected to 16S rRNA gene sequencing-based analysis to determine the baseline microbial composition. Results showed that the community diversity increased from the upper to lower GI segments and that the stratification of microbial communities as well as shift of microbial metabolites were driven by biogeographic location. A greater proportion of lactate-producing bacteria (such as Lactobacillus, Turicibacter and Streptococcus) were found in the stomach and small intestine, while anaerobic Lachnospiraceae and Ruminococcaceae, fermenting carbohydrates and plant aromatic compounds, constituted the bulk of the large-intestinal core microbiota where topologically distinct co-occurrence networks were constructed for the adjacent luminal and mucosal compartments. When comparing the GI microbiota from different hosts, we found that the rat microbial biogeography might represent a new reference, distinct from other murine animals. Our study provides the first comprehensive characterization of the rat GI microbiota landscape for the research community, laying the foundation for better understanding and predicting the disease-related alterations in microbial communities.	2017	7	10.1038/srep45840	MAYBE	Dave	n
Zhao F; Xu KD	Distribution of Ciliates in Intertidal Sediments across Geographic Distances: A Molecular View	PROTIST	The estimation of the diversity and geographic distribution of protists in particular ciliates has long been an ongoing debate. We estimated the distribution of ciliates in intertidal sediments with geographic distance ranging from 10 cm to 1,000 km, using high-throughput DNA sequencing. Higher community similarity, in particular that of rare ciliate taxa, occurred between replicates than between sites. Statistical analyses showed that the community dissimilarities of both abundant and moderately abundant ciliates had correlations with geographic distance at the scales of 50 m, 200 km and 1000 km, indicating a distance-decay relationship. No significant correlation was observed for rare taxa. The analysis of Bray-Curtis similarity showed a higher pairwise community similarity in abundant taxa than in moderately abundant taxa, and that in rare taxa was the lowest. Abundant taxa usually can disperse in a wider range than rare taxa, though their distribution is restricted by distance to some extent. Rare taxa are potentially more sensitive to changing environments, but no distance-decay relationship could be observed. The data indicate contrasting patterns of geographic distribution of the abundant and rare ciliate taxa and a weak distance-decay relationship for relatively abundant taxa at a scale over 50 m. (C) 2017 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.	2017	168	10.1016/j.protis.2017.01.001	YES	Dave	n
Graham EB; Crump AR; Resch CT; Fansler S; Arntzen E; Kennedy DW; Fredrickson JK; Stegen JC	Deterministic influences exceed dispersal effects on hydrologically-connected microbiomes	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Subsurface groundwater-surface water mixing zones (hyporheic zones) have enhanced biogeochemical activity, but assembly processes governing subsurface microbiomes remain a critical uncertainty in understanding hyporheic biogeochemistry. To address this obstacle, we investigated (a) biogeographical patterns in attached and waterborne microbiomes across three hydrologically-connected, physicochemically-distinct zones (inland hyporheic, nearshore hyporheic and river); (b) assembly processes that generated these patterns; (c) groups of organisms that corresponded to deterministic changes in the environment; and (d) correlations between these groups and hyporheic metabolism. All microbiomes remained dissimilar through time, but consistent presence of similar taxa suggested dispersal and/or common selective pressures among zones. Further, we demonstrated a pronounced impact of deterministic assembly in all microbiomes as well as seasonal shifts from heterotrophic to autotrophic microorganisms associated with increases in groundwater discharge. The abundance of one statistical cluster of organisms increased with active biomass and respiration, revealing organisms that may strongly influence hyporheic biogeochemistry. Based on our results, we propose a conceptualization of hyporheic zone metabolism in which increased organic carbon concentrations during surface water intrusion support heterotrophy, which succumbs to autotrophy under groundwater discharge. These results provide new opportunities to enhance microbially-explicit ecosystem models describing hyporheic zone biogeochemistry and its influence over riverine ecosystem function.	2017	19	10.1111/1462-2920.13720	YES	Dave	y
Shanmugam SG; Magbanua ZV; Williams MA; Jangid K; Whitman WB; Peterson DG; Kingery WL	Bacterial Diversity Patterns Differ in Soils Developing in Sub-tropical and Cool-Temperate Ecosystems	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Microbial diversity patterns have been surveyed in many different soils and ecosystems, but we are unaware of studies comparing similar soils developing from similar parent materials in contrasting climates. In 2008, developmental chronosequences with ages ranging from 105 to 500,000 years across Georgia (GA) and Michigan (MI) were studied to investigate how bacterial community composition and diversity change as a result of local environmental gradients that develop during pedogenesis. Geographic factors were studied between and within locations spanning two scales: (1) regionally between 0.1 and 50 and (2) similar to 1700 km apart. The diversity was surveyed using high-throughput pyrosequencing, and variance partitioning was used to describe the effects of spatial, environmental, and spatio-environmental factors on bacterial community composition. At the local scale, variation in bacterial communities was most closely related to environmental factors (r(M)=0.59, p = 0.0001). There were differences in bacterial communities between the two locations, indicating spatial biogeography. Estimates of bacterial diversity were much greater in MI (numbers of OTU, ACE, and Chao1) and remained 2-3x greater in MI than GA after removing the effect of soil properties. The large differences in diversity between geographically separated bacterial communities in different climates need further investigation. It is not known if the rare members of the community, which contributed to greater bacterial diversity in GA relative to MI, play an important role in ecosystem function but has been hypothesized to play a role in ecosystem resiliency, resistance, and stability. Further research on the link between bacterial diversity and spatial variability related to climate needs further investigation.	2017	73	10.1007/s00248-016-0884-8	YES	Dave	y
Song C; Wang BC; Tan J; Zhu LC; Lou DH; Cen XX	Comparative analysis of the gut microbiota of black bears in China using high-throughput sequencing	MOLECULAR GENETICS AND GENOMICS	The Asiatic black bear (Ursus thibetanus) is a protected species from eastern Asia. In China, the Asiatic black bear occurs in 17 provinces from northeast to southwest regions. To date, information on microbial diversity in the gut of the Asiatic black bears from different populations remains limited. To determine the species composition and community structure of the gut microbiota in the Asiatic black bear, we characterized 36 fecal samples from Sichuan, Yunnan, and Heilongjiang provinces, China, by pyrosequencing the 16S V3-V4 hypervariable regions using the Illumina Miseq platform. Results showed that Firmicutes and Proteobacteria were the predominant phyla in the samples, which were largely comprised Escherichia-Shigella, Peptostreptococcaceae_incertae_sedis, Turicibacter, Streptococcus, and Clostridium. By analyzing the community structure from these 36 samples, we found that there were significant differences in the species diversity and richness between Sichuan, Yunnan, and Heilongjiang populations. In conclusion, our results reveal the species composition and structure of the gut microbiota in captive black bears in China, and suggest that biogeography could affect the black bear gut microbiota.	2017	292	10.1007/s00438-016-1282-0	MAYBE	Dave	n
Mino S; Nakagawa S; Makita H; Toki T; Miyazaki J; Sievert SM; Polz MF; Inagaki F; Godfroy A; Kato S; Watanabe H; Nunoura T; Nakamura K; Imachi H; Watsuji T; Kojima S; Takai K; Sawabe T	Endemicity of the cosmopolitan mesophilic chemolithoautotroph Sulfurimonas at deep-sea hydrothermal vents	ISME JOURNAL	Rich animal and microbial communities have been found at deep-sea hydrothermal vents. Although the biogeography of vent macrofauna is well understood, the corresponding knowledge about vent microbial biogeography is lacking. Here, we apply the multilocus sequence analysis (MLSA) to assess the genetic variation of 109 Sulfurimonas strains with >= 98% 16S rRNA gene sequence similarity, which were isolated from four different geographical regions (Okinawa Trough (OT), Mariana Volcanic Arc and Trough (MVAT), Central Indian Ridge (CIR) and Mid-Atlantic Ridge (MAR)). Sequence typing based on 11 protein-coding genes revealed high genetic variation, including some allele types that are widespread within regions, resulting in 102 nucleotide sequence types (STs). This genetic variation was predominantly due to mutation rather than recombination. Phylogenetic analysis of the 11 concatenated genes showed a clear geographical isolation corresponding to the hydrothermal regions they originated from, suggesting limited dispersal. Genetic differentiation among Sulfurimonas populations was primarily influenced by geographical distance rather than gas composition of vent fluid or habitat, although in situ environmental conditions of each microhabitat could not be examined. Nevertheless, Sulfurimonas may possess a higher dispersal capability compared with deep-sea hydrothermal vent thermophiles. This is the first report on MLSA of deep-sea hydrothermal vent Epsilonproteobacteria, which is indicative of allopatric speciation.	2017	11	10.1038/ismej.2016.178	YES	Dave	y
Payne JT; Millar JJ; Jackson CR; Ochs CA	Patterns of variation in diversity of the Mississippi river microbiome over 1,300 kilometers	PLOS ONE	We examined the downriver patterns of variation in taxonomic diversity of the Mississippi River bacterioplankton microbiome along 1,300 river kilometers, or approximately one third the total length of the river. The study section included portions of the Upper, Middle, and Lower Mississippi River, confluences with five tributaries draining distinct sub-basins, river cities, and extended stretches without major inputs to the Mississippi. The composition and proportional abundance of dominant bacterial phyla was distinct for free-living and particle associated cells, and constant along the entire reach, except for a substantial but transient disturbance near the city of Memphis, Tennessee. At a finer scale of taxonomic resolution (operational taxonomic units, OTUs), however, there were notable patterns in downriver variation in bacterial community alpha diversity (richness within a site) and beta diversity (variation in composition among sites). There was a strong and steady increase downriver in alpha diversity of OTUs on suspended particles, suggesting an increase in particle niche heterogeneity, and/or particle colonization. Relatively large shifts in beta diversity of free-living and particle-associated communities occurred following major tributary confluences and transiently at Memphis, while in long stretches between these points diversity typically varied more gradually. We conclude that the Mississippi River possesses a bacterioplankton microbiome distinct in diversity from other large river microbiomes in the Mississippi River Basin, that at major river confluences or urban point sources its OTU diversity may shift abruptly and substantially, presumably by immigration of distinct external microbiomes, but that where environmental conditions are more stable along the downriver gradient, micro biome diversity tends to vary gradually, presumably by a process of successional change in community composition.	2017	12	10.1371/journal.pone.0174890	YES	Dave	y
Tian Q; Taniguchi T; Shi WY; Li GQ; Yamanaka N; Du S	Land-use types and soil chemical properties influence soil microbial communities in the semiarid Loess Plateau region in China	SCIENTIFIC REPORTS	Similar land-use types usually have similar soil properties, and, most likely, similar microbial communities. Here, we assessed whether land-use types or soil chemical properties are the primary drivers of soil microbial community composition, and how changes in one part of the ecosystem affect another. We applied Ion Torrent sequencing to the bacterial and fungal communities of five different land-use (vegetation) types in the Loess Plateau of China. We found that the overall trend of soil quality was natural forest > plantation > bare land. Dominant bacterial phyla consisted of Proteobacteria (42.35%), Actinobacteria (15.61%), Acidobacteria (13.32%), Bacteroidetes (8.43%), and Gemmatimonadetes (6.0%). The dominant fungi phyla were Ascomycota (40.39%), Basidiomycota (38.01%), and Zygomycota (16.86%). The results of Canonical Correspondence Analysis (CCA) and Redundancy Analysis (RDA) based on land-use types displayed groups according to the land-use types. Furthermore, the bacterial communities were mainly organized by soil organic carbon (SOC). The fungal communities were mainly related to available phosphorus (P). The results suggested that the changes of land use type generated changes in soil chemical properties, controlling the composition of microbial community in the semiarid Loess Plateau region. The microbial community could be an indicator for soil quality with respect to ecological restoration.	2017	7	10.1038/srep45289	MAYBE	Dave	y
Xiang X; Wang RC; Wang HM; Gong LF; Man BY; Xu Y	Distribution of Bathyarchaeota Communities Across Different Terrestrial Settings and Their Potential Ecological Functions	SCIENTIFIC REPORTS	High abundance and widespread distribution of the archaeal phylum Bathyarchaeota in marine environment have been recognized recently, but knowledge about Bathyarchaeota in terrestrial settings and their correlation with environmental parameters is fairly limited. Here we reported the abundance of Bathyarchaeota members across different ecosystems and their correlation with environmental factors by constructing 16S rRNA clone libraries of peat from the Dajiuhu Peatland, coupling with bioinformatics analysis of 16S rRNA data available to date in NCBI database. In total, 1456 Bathyarchaeota sequences from 28 sites were subjected to UniFrac analysis based on phylogenetic distance and multivariate regression tree analysis of taxonomy. Both phylogenetic and taxon-based approaches showed that salinity, total organic carbon and temperature significantly influenced the distribution of Bathyarchaeota across different terrestrial habitats. By applying the ecological concept of indicator species, we identify 9 indicator groups among the 6 habitats with the most in the estuary sediments. Network analysis showed that members of Bathyarchaeota formed the backbone of archaeal community and often co-occurred with Methanomicrobia. These results suggest that Bathyarchaeota may play an important ecological role within archaeal communities via a potential symbiotic association with Methanomicrobia. Our results shed light on understanding of the biogeography, potential functions of Bathyarchaeota and environment conditions that influence Bathyarchaea distribution in terrestrial settings.	2017	7	10.1038/srep45028	MAYBE	Dave	y
Seo JH; Kang I; Yang SJ; Cho JC	Characterization of spatial distribution of the bacterial community in the South Sea of Korea	PLOS ONE	In order to investigate the importance of spatial and environmental factors on the structure and diversity of bacterial communities, high-resolution 16S rRNA gene tag pyrosequencing was applied to bacterial communities in the littoral sea. Seawater samples were prepared from seven different stations in the South Sea of Korea, the marginal sea in the western Pacific Ocean, and were divided into three groups according to distances from the coastline. The majority of 19,860 sequences were affiliated with Alphaproteobacteria (58.2%), Gammaproteobacteria (7.9%), and Bacteroidetes (13.9%). The bacterioplankton community at each station was highly diverse and varied among the samples. Major bacterial lineages showed different niche preferences among three locational groups. Alphaproteobacteria was the most abundant bacterial class, and it harbored the most frequently recorded operational taxonomic units (OTUs) in all sampling stations. However, dominant groups at the order levels showed a clear difference among the samples. The SAR11 clade was more abundant in coastal waters while the Roseobacter clade prevailed at stations far away from the coastline. Furthermore, members of Actinobacteria and Cyanobacteria also exhibited spatial variability. The OM1 clade in Actinobacteria constituted a predominant fraction in coastal samples, but it was essentially absent at the distal stations closer to open ocean. In contrast, Synechococcus was the predominant taxon in the distal samples, accounting for 7.1-19.5%, but was hardly detected in coastal waters, representing less than 0.7%. In Bacteroidetes, NS5 and NS9 groups tended to inhabit coastal waters while the genera Polaribacter and Ulvibacter were more abundant in distal stations. Clustering analysis and principle coordinates analysis based on OTU data indicated that bacterial communities in the studied area were separated into three groups that coincided with locational grouping. Statistical analysis showed that phosphate and dissolved oxygen concentration had a significant influence on the bacterial community composition.	2017	12	10.1371/journal.pone.0174159	YES	Dave	y
Li XY; Sun J; Wang HH; Li X; Wang J; Zhang HW	Changes in the soil microbial phospholipid fatty acid profile with depth in three soil types of paddy fields in China	GEODERMA	We know very little about microbial communities in deeper soil horizons, especially the microbial characteristics along soil depth profiles in paddy fields. In this study, we used a phospholipid fatty acid (PLFA) analysis to investigate the vertical distribution of the microbial community, and to identify the environmental factors that contributed to changes of the microbial community along a soil depth gradient. Samples were collected from the soil surface to 1 m in depth from three soil types of paddy fields in three regions. The results showed that total PLFAs and Shannons diversity index decreased significantly with increasing soil depth, and they exhibited relatively low values at soil depths less than 40 cm. In the paddy soil profile, the relative microbial abundance was in the order bacteria > actinomycetes > fungi. Generally, the relative abundances of bacteria and fungi significantly decreased at 0-40 cm depths and then increased at 40-100 cm depths; however, the relative abundance of actinomycetes usually increased at 0-40 cm depths, and then decreased significantly with increasing soil depth. The proportion of Gram-positive bacteria was higher than that of Gram-negative bacteria in deeper soils. Canonical correspondence analysis and Pearsons correlation analysis indicated that nutrient resources and soil water content were more closely correlated with the changes of the microbial community structures along the soil depth gradient than soil pH, elevation, and climate, and were the primary drivers of the microbial community composition along the soil depth gradient. (C) 2016 Published by Elsevier B.V.	2017	290	10.1016/j.geoderma.2016.11.006	MAYBE	Dave	y
Djurhuus A; Boersch-Supan PH; Mikalsen SO; Rogers AD	Microbe biogeography tracks water masses in a dynamic oceanic frontal system	ROYAL SOCIETY OPEN SCIENCE	Dispersal limitation, not just environmental selection, plays an important role in microbial biogeography. The distancedecay relationship is thought to be weak in habitats where dispersal is high, such as in the pelagic environment, where ocean currents facilitate microbial dispersal. Most studies of microbial community composition to date have observed little geographical heterogeneity on a regional scale (100 km). We present a study of microbial communities across a dynamic frontal zone in the southwest Indian Ocean and investigate the spatial structure of the microbes with respect to the different water masses separated by these fronts. We collected 153 samples of free-living microorganisms from five seamounts located along a gradient from subtropical to subantarctic waters and across three depth layers: (i) the sub-surface chlorophyll maximum (approx. 40 m), (ii) the bottom of the euphotic zone (approx. 200 m), and (iii) the benthic boundary layer (300-2000 m). Diversity and abundance of microbial operational taxonomic units (OTUs) were assessed by amplification and sequencing of the 16S rRNA gene on an Illumina MiSeq platform. Multivariate analyses showed thatmicrobial communitieswere structured more strongly by depth than by latitude, with similar phyla occurring within each depth stratum across seamounts. The deep layer was homogeneous across the entire survey area, corresponding to the spread of Antarctic intermediate water. However, within both the sub-surface layer and the intermediate depth stratum there was evidence for OTU turnover across fronts. The microbiome of these layers appears to be divided into three distinct biological regimes corresponding to the subantarctic surface water, the convergence zone and subtropical. We show that microbial biogeography across depth and latitudinal gradients is linked to the water masses the microbes persist in, resulting in regional patterns of microbial biogeography that correspond to the regional scale physical oceanography.	2017	4	10.1098/rsos.170033	YES	Dave	y
Wu JY; Anderson BJ; Buckley HL; Lewis G; Lear G	Aspect has a greater impact on alpine soil bacterial community structure than elevation	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Gradients in environmental conditions, including climate factors and resource availability, occur along mountain inclines, providing a natural laboratory to explore their combined impacts on microbial distributions. Conflicting spatial patterns observed across elevation gradients in soil bacterial community structure suggest that they are driven by various interacting factors at different spatial scales. Here, we investigated the relative impacts of non-resource (e. g. soil temperature, pH) and resource conditions (e. g. soil carbon and nitrogen) on the biogeography of soil bacterial communities across broad (i. e. along a 1500 m mountain elevation gradient) and fine sampling scales (i. e. along sunny and shady aspects of a mountain ridge). Our analysis of 16S rRNA gene data confirmed that when sampling across distances of < 1000 m, bacterial community composition was more closely related to the aspect of a site than its elevation. However, despite large differences in climate and resource-availability factors across elevation-and aspect-related gradients, bacterial community composition and richness were most strongly correlated with soil pH. These findings highlight the need to incorporate knowledge of multiple factors, including site aspect and soil pH for the appropriate use of elevation gradients as a proxy to explore the impacts of climate change on microbial community composition.	2017	93	10.1093/femsec/fiw253	YES	Dave	n
Hernando-Morales V; Ameneiro J; Teira E	Water mass mixing shapes bacterial biogeography in a highly hydrodynamic region of the Southern Ocean	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Even though compelling evidences indicate that marine microbes show biogeographic patterns, very little is known on the mechanisms driving those patterns in aquatic ecosystems. In the present study, bacterial community structure was examined in epipelagic waters of a highly hydrodynamic area of the Southern Ocean to gain insight into the role that biogeochemical factors and water mass mixing (a proxy of dispersal) have on microbial biogeography. Four water masses that converge and mix around the South Shetland Islands (northern tip of the Antarctic Peninsula) were investigated. Bacterioplankton communities were water-mass specific, and were best explained by dispersal rather than by biogeochemical factors, which is attributed to the relatively reduced environmental gradients found in these cold and nutrient rich waters. These results support the notionthat currents and water mixing may have a considerable effect in connecting and transforming different water bodies, and consequently, in shaping communities of microorganisms. Considering the multidimensional and dynamic nature of the ocean, analysis of water mass mixing is a more suitable approach to investigate the role of dispersal on the biogeography of planktonic microorganisms rather than geographical distance.	2017	19	10.1111/1462-2920.13538	YES	Dave	y
Johnson RM; Ramond JB; Gunnigle E; Seely M; Cowan DA	Namib Desert edaphic bacterial, fungal and archaeal communities assemble through deterministic processes but are influenced by different abiotic parameters	EXTREMOPHILES	The central Namib Desert is hyperarid, where limited plant growth ensures that biogeochemical processes are largely driven by microbial populations. Recent research has shown that niche partitioning is critically involved in the assembly of Namib Desert edaphic communities. However, these studies have mainly focussed on the Domain Bacteria. Using microbial community fingerprinting, we compared the assembly of the bacterial, fungal and archaeal populations of microbial communities across nine soil niches from four Namib Desert soil habitats (riverbed, dune, gravel plain and salt pan). Permutational multivariate analysis of variance indicated that the nine soil niches presented significantly different physicochemistries (R-2 = 0.8306, P <= 0.0001) and that bacterial, fungal and archaeal populations were soil niche specific (R-2 >= 0.64, P <= 0.001). However, the abiotic drivers of community structure were Domain-specific (P < 0.05), with P, clay and sand fraction, and -NH4 influencing bacterial, fungal and archaeal communities, respectively. Soil physicochemistry and soil niche explained over 50% of the variation in community structure, and communities displayed strong non-random patterns of co-occurrence. Taken together, these results demonstrate that in central Namib Desert soil microbial communities, assembly is principally driven by deterministic processes.	2017	21	10.1007/s00792-016-0911-1	YES	Dave	y
Liao JQ; Cao XF; Wang J; Zhao L; Sun JH; Jiang DL; Huang Y	Similar community assembly mechanisms underlie similar biogeography of rare and abundant bacteria in lakes on Yungui Plateau, China	LIMNOLOGY AND OCEANOGRAPHY	The revolution of molecular techniques in the field of microbial ecology not only allows an in-depth exploration of abundant bacteria, but also confirms the existence of rare biosphere. However, the mechanisms underlying the assembly process of abundant and rare bacteria in plateau lakes are still poorly understood. In the present study, distribution of abundant and rare bacteria in 21 lakes on Yungui Plateau, China and the relative importance of deterministic and neutral factors to their biogeographic patterns were examined. Results surprisingly showed that similar biogeographic patterns of rare and abundant taxa were generally shaped via similar assembly mechanisms. For both bacterial groups, deterministic process strongly influenced the distribution, while neutral process was not at play. In addition, they both exhibited a weak distance-decay relationship. Nevertheless, environmental drivers of rare and abundant taxa and their importance were not exactly the same. Water physicochemical property was the most dominant driver shaping the biogeographic pattern of rare taxa, followed by lake morphology and watershed land-use, while for abundant taxa, watershed land-use was the most dominant driver and lake morphology did not play a significant role. This study suggested that rare bacteria in high-altitude aquatic ecosystems might experience equally low extinction risk and respond to environmental changes in a similar manner to abundant ones, but their ecological niches and functions were not identical. To fully understand the assembly mechanism of bacterial community, it is necessary to differentiate the community by traits of taxa.	2017	62	10.1002/lno.10455	YES	Dave	y
Ferrera I; Sarmento H; Priscu JC; Chiuchiolo A; Gonzalez JM; Grossart HP	Diversity and Distribution of Freshwater Aerobic Anoxygenic Phototrophic Bacteria across a Wide Latitudinal Gradient	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Aerobic anoxygenic phototrophs (AAPs) have been shown to exist in numerous marine and brackish environments where they are hypothesized to play important ecological roles. Despite their potential significance, the study of freshwater AAPs is in its infancy and limited to local investigations. Here, we explore the occurrence, diversity and distribution of AAPs in lakes covering a wide latitudinal gradient: Mongolian and German lakes located in temperate regions of Eurasia, tropical Great East African lakes, and polar permanently ice-covered Antarctic lakes. Our results show a widespread distribution of AAPs in lakes with contrasting environmental conditions and confirm that this group is composed of different members of the Alpha- and Betaproteobacteria. While latitude does not seem to strongly influence AAP abundance, clear patterns of community structure and composition along geographic regions were observed as indicated by a strong macro-geographical signal in the taxonomical composition of AAPs. Overall, our results suggest that the distribution patterns of freshwater AAPs are likely driven by a combination of small-scale environmental conditions (specific of each lake and region) and large-scale geographic factors (climatic regions across a latitudinal gradient).	2017	8	10.3389/fmicb.2017.00175	YES	Dave	y
Lymperopoulou DS; Dobbs FC	Bacterial Diversity in Ships Ballast Water, Ballast-Water Exchange, and Implications for Ship-Mediated Dispersal of Microorganisms	ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY	Using next-generation DNA sequencing of the 16S rRNA gene, we analyzed the composition and diversity of bacterial assemblages in ballast water from tanks of 17 commercial ships arriving to Hampton Roads, Virginia (USA) following voyages in the North Atlantic Ocean. Amplicon sequencing analysis showed the heterogeneous assemblages were (1) dominated by Alpha- and Gammaproteobacteria, Bacteroidetes, and unclassified Bacteria; (2) temporally distinct (June vs August/September); and (3) highly fidelitous among replicate samples. Whether tanks were exchanged at sea or not, their bacterial assemblages differed from those of local, coastal water. Compositional data suggested at-sea exchange did not fully flush coastal Bacteria from all tanks; there were several instances of a genetic geographic signal. Quantitative PCR yielded no Escherichia coli and few instances of Vibrio species. Salinity, but not ballast-water age or temperature, contributed significantly to bacterial diversity. Whether anthropogenic mixing of marine Bacteria restructures their biogeography remains to be tested.	2017	51	10.1021/acs.est.6b03108	MAYBE	Dave	y
Marino CM; Pawlik JR; Lopez-Legentil S; Erwin PM	Latitudinal variation in the microbiome of the sponge Ircinia campana correlates with host haplotype but not anti-predatory chemical defense	MARINE ECOLOGY PROGRESS SERIES	Many marine sponges host diverse symbiotic microbial communities that have been implicated in the production of secondary metabolites. These metabolites may defend the host sponge from potential predators. Variability in symbiont communities across the range of the host sponge could alter levels of chemical defense. To investigate the relationship between symbiont composition and chemical defense, the microbiomes and palatability of tissue samples from Ircinia campana were characterized from 5 sites along a latitudinal gradient spanning temperate (South Atlantic Bight, SAB) and tropical (Caribbean) regions. Terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis and Illumina sequencing of 16S ribosomal RNA genes revealed that I. campana from different locations contained significantly distinct microbiomes and exhibited a consistent relationship of lower symbiont similarity over greater geographic distance (i.e. distance-decay). However, crude organic extracts of all samples of I. campana were unpalatable to assay fish Thalassoma bifasciatum in laboratory assays, indicating no difference in chemical defense across locations. Distinct haplotypes of I. campana were detected in populations from the SAB and Caribbean, correlating with the observed patterns of latitudinal variation in microbial symbiont communities. Our findings indicate that I. campana is chemically defended from fish predators across the range of the species and that latitudinal variation occurs in the microbiome of I. campana, driven by a combination of host-specific factors and region-specific environmental filtering of symbiont communities.	2017	565	10.3354/meps12015	YES	Dave	y
Li Z; Lu LH; Guo JS; Yang JX; Zhang JC; He B; Xu LL	Responses of spatial-temporal dynamics of bacterioplankton community to large-scale reservoir operation: a case study in the Three Gorges Reservoir, China	SCIENTIFIC REPORTS	Large rivers are commonly regulated by damming, yet the effects of such disruption on bacterioplankton community structures have not been adequately studied. The aim of this study was to explore the biogeographical patterns present under dam regulation and to uncover the major drivers structuring bacterioplankton communities. Bacterioplankton assemblages in the Three Gorges Reservoir (TGR) were analyzed using Illumina Miseq sequencing by comparing seven sites located within the TGR before and after impoundment. This approach revealed ecological and spatial-temporal variations in bacterioplankton community composition along the longitudinal axis. The community was dynamic and dominated by Proteobacteria and Actinobacteria phyla, encompassing 39.26% and 37.14% of all sequences, respectively, followed by Bacteroidetes (8.67%) and Cyanobacteria (3.90%). The Shannon-Wiener index of the bacterioplankton community in the flood season (August) was generally higher than that in the impoundment season (November). Principal Component Analysis of the bacterioplankton community compositions showed separation between different seasons and sampling sites. Results of the relationship between bacterioplankton community compositions and environmental variables highlighted that ecological processes of element cycling and large dam disturbances are of prime importance in driving the assemblages of riverine bacterioplankton communities.	2017	7	10.1038/srep42469	MAYBE	Dave	y
Yang SH; Zhang YG; Cong J; Wang MM; Zhao MX; Lu H; Xie CY; Yang CY; Yuan T; Li DQ; Zhou JZ; Gu BH; Yang YF	Variations of Soil Microbial Community Structures Beneath Broadleaved Forest Trees in Temperate and Subtropical Climate Zones	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Global warming has shifted climate zones poleward or upward. However, understanding the responses and mechanism of microbial community structure and functions relevant to natural climate zone succession is challenged by the high complexity of microbial communities. Here, we examined soil microbial community in three broadleaved forests located in the Wulu Mountain (WLM, temperate climate), Funiu Mountain (FNM, at the border of temperate and subtropical climate zones), or Shennongjia Mountain (SNJ, subtropical climate). Although plant species richness decreased with latitudes, the microbial taxonomic alpha-diversity increased with latitudes, concomitant with increases in soil total and available nitrogen and phosphorus contents. Phylogenetic NRI (Net Relatedness Index) values increased from -0.718 in temperate zone (WLM) to 1.042 in subtropical zone (SNJ), showing a shift from over dispersion to clustering likely caused by environmental filtering such as low pH and nutrients. Similarly, taxonomy-based association networks of subtropical forest samples were larger and tighter, suggesting clustering. In contrast, functional alpha-diversity was similar among three forests, but functional gene networks of the FNM forest significantly (P < 0.050) differed from the others. A significant correlation (R = 0.616, P < 0.001) between taxonomic and functional beta-diversity was observed only in the FNM forest, suggesting low functional redundancy at the border of climate zones. Using a strategy of space-fortime substitution, we predict that poleward climate range shift will lead to decreased microbial taxonomic alpha-diversities in broadleaved forest.	2017	8	10.3389/fmicb.2017.00200	YES	Dave	y
Volpi M; Lomstein BA; Sichert A; Roy H; Jorgensen BB; Kjeldsen KU	Identity, abundance and reactivation kinetics of thermophilic fermentative endospores in cold marine sediment and seawater	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Cold marine sediments harbor endospores of fermentative and sulfate-reducing, thermophilic bacteria. These dormant populations of endospores are believed to accumulate in the seabed via passive dispersal by ocean currents followed by sedimentation from the water column. However, the magnitude of this process is poorly understood because the endospores present in seawater were so far not identified, and only the abundance of thermophilic sulfate-reducing endospores in the seabed has been quantified. We investigated the distribution of thermophilic fermentative endospores (TFEs) in water column and sediment of Aarhus Bay, Denmark, to test the role of suspended dispersal and determine the rate of endospore deposition and the endospore abundance in the sediment. We furthermore aimed to determine the time course of reactivation of the germinating TFEs. TFEs were induced to germinate and grow by incubating pasteurized sediment and water samples anaerobically at 50 degrees C. We observed a sudden release of the endospore component dipicolinic acid immediately upon incubation suggesting fast endospore reactivation in response to heating. Volatile fatty acids (VFAs) and H-2 began to accumulate exponentially after 3.5 h of incubation showing that reactivation was followed by a short phase of outgrowth before germinated cells began to divide. Thermophilic fermenters were mainly present in the sediment as endospores because the rate of VFA accumulation was identical in pasteurized and non-pasteurized samples. Germinating TFEs were identified taxonomically by reverse transcription, PCR amplification and sequencing of 16S rRNA. The water column and sediment shared the same phylotypes, thereby confirming the potential for seawater dispersal. The abundance of TFEs was estimated by most probable number enumeration, rates of VFA production, and released amounts of dipicolinic acid during germination. The surface sediment contained similar to 105-106 inducible TFEs cm(-3). TFEs thus outnumber thermophilic sulfate-reducing endospores by an order of magnitude. The abundance of cultivable TFEs decreased exponentially with sediment depth with a half-life of 350 years. We estimate that 6 X 109 anaerobic thermophilic endospores are deposited on the seafloor per m2 per year in Aarhus Bay, and that these thermophiles represent >10% of the total endospore community in the surface sediment.	2017	8	10.3389/fmicb.2017.00131	MAYBE	Dave	y
Djurhuus A; Read JF; Rogers AD	The spatial distribution of particulate organic carbon and microorganisms on seamounts of the South West Indian Ridge	DEEP-SEA RESEARCH PART II-TOPICAL STUDIES IN OCEANOGRAPHY	The ecology and biogeochemistry of oceanic seamounts is not very well understood and explored. Pelagic ecosystems above the summits and flanks of seamounts have been observed to show different biological or biogeochemical properties to off-seamount areas, such as enhanced chlorophyll concentrations, a phenomenon referred to as the seamount effect. In addition, seamount biogeography has been hypothesised to be similar to islands where community structure differences in multiple organisms have been shown to change between seamounts and across frontal systems. We used elemental analysis, to measure particulate organic carbon (POC), and flow cytometry, to estimate abundance of microorganisms from above four seamounts (Coral, Melville, Middle of What and Atlantis) along the Southwest Indian Ridge (SWIR) from latitude 32.6 degrees S to 41.3 degrees S, longitude 57.1 degrees E to 42.7 degrees E. Samples were collected from the surface to the bottom using a CTD fitted with optical sensors. POC was predicted from models created from in-situ transmission (optical) data (c(p)). The high resolution predicted POC in the euphotic zone showed a heterogeneous distribution both above individual and between seamounts. The shallow penetration of two of the seamounts displayed an effect on the POC concentration in the euphotic zone depleting the layer around the summit. The transmission data showed higher concentrations of particles towards the surface, caused by primary production, and near to the seabed, probably resulting from re-suspension of sediments. The POC concentrations and microbial abundance were positively correlated to c(p) and fluctuated with particle abundance, with microorganisms accounting for similar to 50% of the observed POC. Based on non-metric multidimensional scaling it is clear that the microbial clusters strongly indicate three separate biological regimes associated with northeastern, central and southwestern zones of the section of the SWIR that was sampled. This biological zonation is associated with physical oceanographic boundaries represented by the Subtropical and Subantarctic Fronts, forming three distinct biogeographical regions. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2017	136	10.1016/j.dsr2.2015.11.015	MAYBE	Dave	y
Lu XD; Seuradge BJ; Neufeld JD	Biogeography of soil Thaumarchaeota in relation to soil depth and land usage	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Although Thaumarchaeota are important contributors to ammonia oxidation in terrestrial habitats, distributions of ammonia oxidizers along soil depth profiles are poorly understood, especially in relation to distinct land usages. Leveraging the close proximity of forest, field and agricultural plots at the rare Charitable Research Reserve, we examined soil thaumarchaeotal biogeography at three different depths (0-15, 15-30 and 30-45 cm) from plots within areas of contrasting land usage. Data from high-throughput sequencing of thaumarchaeotal 16S rRNA gene sequences demonstrated that OTU richness was affected significantly by depth and land-use type. Specifically, thaumarchaeotal diversity was higher in soils from forest sites than from field sites, and lower within 0-15 cm soils than either 15-30 cm or 30-45 cm soils. Soil land-use type influenced the relative abundance of the Soil Crenarchaeota Group (SCG), with a lower relative abundance of SCG in forest sites compared to field sites. At the OTU level, thaumarchaeotal communities changed with increasing soil depth for agricultural soils, in contrast to homogeneous depth profiles generated from forest site samples. Soil pH was the strongest factor impacting thaumarchaeotal community composition and, importantly, the evenness of archaeal taxa. Nitrogen, carbon and soil texture shaped thaumarchaeotal community composition among field site samples.	2017	93	10.1093/femsec/fiw246	YES	Dave	n
Seuradge BJ; Josh MO; Neufeld JD	Depth-dependent influence of different land-use systems on bacterial biogeography	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Despite progress in understanding microbial biogeography of surface soils, few studies have investigated depth-dependent distributions of terrestrial microorganisms in subsoils. We leveraged high-throughput sequencing of 16S rRNA genes obtained from soils collected from the rare Charitable Research Reserve (Cambridge, ON, Canada) to assess the influence of depth on bacterial communities across various land-use types. Although bacterial communities were strongly influenced by depth across all sites, the magnitude of this influence was variable and demonstrated that land-use attributes also played a significant role in shaping soil bacterial communities. Soil pH exhibited a large gradient across samples and strongly influenced shifts in bacterial communities with depth and across different land-use systems, especially considering that physicochemical conditions showed generally consistent trends with depth. We observed significant (p <= 0.001) and strongly correlated taxa with depth and pH, with a strong predominance of positively depth-correlated OTUs without cultured representatives. These findings highlight the importance of depth in soil biogeographical surveys and that subsurface soils harbour understudied bacterial members with potentially unique and important functions in deeper soil horizons that remain to be characterized.	2017	93	10.1093/femsec/fiw239	MAYBE	Dave	n
Manrique JM; Jones LR	Are ocean currents to slow to counteract SAR11 evolution? A next-generation sequencing, phylogeographic analysis	MOLECULAR PHYLOGENETICS AND EVOLUTION	This work set out to shed light on the phylogeography of the SAR11 Glade of Alphaproteobacteria, which is probably the most abundant group of heterotrophic bacteria on Earth. In particular, we assessed the degree to which empirical evidence (environmental DNA sequences) supports the concept that SAR11 lineages evolve faster than they are dispersed thus generating vicariant distributions, as predicted by recent simulation efforts. We generated 16S rRNA gene sequences from surface seawater collected at the South West Atlantic Ocean and combined these data with previously published sequences from similar environments from elsewhere. Altogether, these data consisted in about 1e6 reads, from which we generated 355,306 high quality sequences of which 95,318 corresponded to SAR11. Quantitative phylogeographic analyses supported the existence of a spatially explicit distribution of SAR11 species and provided evidence in favor of the idea that dispersal limitations significantly contribute to SAR11 radiation throughout the worlds oceans. Likewise, pairwise phylogenetic distances between the communities studied here were significantly correlated with the genetic divergences predicted by a previously proposed neutral model. As discussed in the paper, these findings are compatible with the concept that the ocean surface constitutes a homogeneous environment for SAR11, in agreement with previous experimental data. We discuss the implications of this hypothesis in a global change scenario. This is the first study combining high throughput sequencing and phylogenic analysis to study bacterial phylogeography and reporting a distance decay pattern of phylogenetic distances for bacteria. (C) 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.	2017	107	10.1016/j.ympev.2016.11.015	YES	Dave	n
Glassman SI; Lubetkin KC; Chung JA; Bruns TD	The theory of island biogeography applies to ectomycorrhizal fungi in subalpine tree islands at a fine scale	ECOSPHERE	The theory of island biogeography, which predicts that species richness is a function of island size and distance from the mainland, is well tested with macro-fauna and flora. Yet, in many ways, microbes are more appropriate for testing this and other ecological theories due to their small size and short generation times that translate to an ease of replication. We used a natural experimental system of isolated host islands to test the generality of the theory of island biogeography. Specifically, we tested whether ectomycorrhizal fungal (EMF) richness increased with tree size and decreased with distance from forest in a subalpine basin in Yosemite National Park for two congeneric pine species, Pinus albicaulis and Pinus contorta. We determined EMF richness with next-generation sequencing, measured the size and age of each tree island (n = 40), and calculated geographic distances from each tree to the nearest forest edge. We found that EMF richness increased with island size (as measured by tree volume) and tree age for both pine species and decreased with distance from forest edge for P. albicaulis. Thus, we show the applicability of the theory to microbial symbionts in harsh, dry, and likely non-equilibrium systems. In addition, we found that despite the fact that our tree islands had a mean age of 65 yr, a pioneer community of EMF dominated. We interpret this as evidence that water stress interacts with succession to create a sustained period of early-stage fungi even in mature trees.	2017	8	10.1002/ecs2.1677	YES	Dave	y
Haggerty JM; Dinsdale EA	Distinct biogeographical patterns of marine bacterial taxonomy and functional genes	GLOBAL ECOLOGY AND BIOGEOGRAPHY	AimWhile paradigms of macroecology are challenged by the high rates of reproduction, dispersal and horizontal gene exchange of bacterial communities, environmental DNA sequencing makes community profiles accessible. We test fundamental hypotheses of macroecological theories, showing that both taxonomic and functional classifications have distinct biogeographical variation across distance and environments depending on trophic composition. LocationStudies spanning the global oceans. MethodsTaxonomic and functional profiles were obtained from metagenomes and were compared across oceanographic regions and tested for patterns of co-occurrence. The influences of sampling method (filter size), environmental variables and geographical distribution were compared with distance-based linear models to test predictors of taxonomic and functional composition. Macroecological drivers were compared with bacterial community structure to test four biogeographical hypotheses: (1) no biogeographical patterns, (2) community structure reflects environmental dissimilarity, (3) community structure reflects distance, (4) community structure reflects environment and distance. ResultsBacterial families were clustered into four trophic groups - phototrophic, oligotrophic, eutrophic and copiotrophic - by changes in abundance across oceanographic regions and co-occurrence with core functions. Changes in community composition were best modelled by longitude for free-living communities and dissolved oxygen for mixed communities of free-living and particle-associated bacteria. Both microhabitat and community assignment had an impact on biogeographical patterns, with taxonomic compositions following our hypotheses 2 and 4 and functional gene compositions following hypotheses 3 and 4. Main conclusionsWe described four trophic groups adding to the current dichotomy of the classification of marine bacteria as oligotrophic or copiotrophic. Taxonomic composition of mixed communities reflected environmental differences but not geographical distance, whereas functional gene composition in free-living communities was independent of environmental dissimilarity and reflected geographical distance. Patterns of biogeography in bacterial communities differed depending on the description of taxa or function. Therefore, we developed a new paradigm for bacterial ecology which shows that some aspects of bacterial evolution depend on trophic complexity, history and current environmental conditions.	2017	26	10.1111/geb.12528	YES	Dave	y
Dong CM; Sheng HF; Wang WG; Zhou HW; Shao ZZ	Bacterial distribution pattern in the surface sediments distinctive among shelf, slope and basin across the western Arctic Ocean	POLAR BIOLOGY	The Arctic Ocean is undergoing a rapid change due to global climate change. Knowledge about bacterial community composition will help us to evaluate their ecological role and predict possible community shifts in future. To this end, we collected 11 sediment samples across the western Arctic Ocean from shelf near to the North Pole, spanning three geographical regions: ice-free Chukchi Shelf, more than 90 % ice-covered Canadian Basin and the partial ice-covered slopes between them. The spatial distribution of bacterial community composition was examined by 16S rRNA gene using Illumina high-throughput sequencing in conjunction with sediment geophysicochemical variables and sampling geographical distance. Overall, Proteobacteria, Acidobacteria, Planctomycetes, Actinobacteria, Chloroflexi, Gemmatimonadetes, Bacteroidetes, Verrucomicrobia, Nitrospira and Thermomicrobia were the top ten dominant phyla. The bacterial communities from the same region exhibited similar composition pattern, but distinctive in each region. Statistical analysis (linear discriminant analysis effect size) showed Deltaproteobacteria, Gammaproteobacteria and Alphaproteobacteria were the distinct taxa in Chukchi Shelf, Slopes and Canadian Basin, respectively. Correspondingly, Desulfobacterales, Planctomycetales and Rhodospirillales were determined at order level. Canonical correspondence analysis demonstrated bacterial distribution was significantly correlated with sediment geophysicochemical factors and geographical distance. Furthermore, variance partitioning analysis confirmed that the combination of geophysicochemical factors, including sediment nutrients content, grain size, sampling site water depth and ice coverage, contributed more than geographical distance to the spatial distribution of bacterial communities across the western Arctic Ocean. In general, this study offers a snapshot of bacterial community composition under the background in rapidly changing Arctic Ocean.	2017	40	10.1007/s00300-016-1970-6	YES	Dave	n
Lan GY; Li YW; Wu ZX; Xie GS	Soil Bacterial Diversity Impacted by Conversion of Secondary Forest to Rubber or Eucalyptus Plantations: A Case Study of Hainan Island, South China	FOREST SCIENCE	Rubber plantation (RP) is the most important economic forest of Hainan Island, South China. In addition, eucalyptus plantations (EP), used as shelter forests, were planted to protect the rubber plantations from typhoon hazards in the 1980s. To date, few studies have examined the effects on bacterial composition and diversity after secondary tropical forests (SF) have been converted into RP or EP. This study investigated the bacterial communities of RP, EP, and SF using an Illumina high-throughput sequencing analysis. Our findings revealed the following First, there were significant differences between RP, EP, and SF in bacterial compositions at both the phylum and family levels. Second, the Shannon indices of RP and EP were significantly higher than that of SF. The Simpson dominance index of SF was 0.012, which was significantly higher than those of RP and EP, indicating that the diversities of RP and EP were higher than that of SF. Abundance rank curves confirmed that the taxonomic compositions in EP and RP were relatively uniformly distributed compared with that in SF, which results in the higher diversities of RP and EP. Third, Soil nutrition (total nitrogen, total phosphorus, and total potassium), which explained 43.05% of the total variance of taxonomic composition, was the most important factor affecting the soil bacterial community structure in this region. In conclusion, soil nutrition has increased, mainly due to the application of fertilizers, after SF conversion to RP and EP, which, in turn, has resulted in significant changes in the bacterial community composition as well as a general increase in bacterial community diversity.	2017	63	10.5849/forsci.16-012	MAYBE	Dave	y
Durrer A; Gumiere T; Taketani RG; da Costa DP; Silva MDPE; Andreote FD	The drivers underlying biogeographical patterns of bacterial communities in soils under sugarcane cultivation	APPLIED SOIL ECOLOGY	The exploration of microbiomes has been posited as one of the pillars for innovative technologies to improve plant health and production. Agriculture is a promising area for this exploration as soils harbor vast and diverse microbial communities. A better understanding of the drivers influencing microbial biogeographical patterns is necessary to properly exploit this resource. Here, we aimed to describe biogeographical patterns of bacterial communities across a broad spatial scale by sampling soils in 10 distinct farms (a total of 285 soil samples) located at the most important region for sugarcane production in Brazil. Bacterial communities were analyzed in terms of community structure and composition and further correlated with soil characteristics, agricultural practices and geographical distances. Distance decay patterns were found either at the bacterial community level (as determined by T-RFLP and sequencing analyses) and at the distribution of most bacterial phyla. Partial redundancy analysis revealed that soil characteristics (i.e., pH, granulometry, potassium and phosphorus contents) and agricultural practices (i.e., amendments of vinasse, charcoal and mechanical harvesting) explained the differential structuring of bacterial communities to a higher extend than did geographical distance. The co-occurrence/mutual-exclusion analysis suggested a role of biological connections in these assemblages, such as the co-occurrence of Proteobacteria and Acidobacteria, both negatively correlated with Actinobacteria. Our data constitute the broadest assessment of biogeographical patterns of bacterial communities across agricultural soils. Collectively, it indicates that these bacterial assemblages are suitable for management, what support the development of microbiome-based strategies in agricultural settings. (C) 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2017	110	10.1016/j.apsoil.2016.11.005	YES	Dave	n
Ristova PP; Bienhold C; Wenzhofer F; Rossel PE; Boetius A	Temporal and Spatial Variations of Bacterial and Faunal Communities Associated with Deep-Sea Wood Falls	PLOS ONE	Sinking of large organic food falls i.e. kelp, wood and whale carcasses to the oligotrophic deep-sea floor promotes the establishment of locally highly productive and diverse ecosystems, often with specifically adapted benthic communities. However, the fragmented spatial distribution and small area poses challenges for the dispersal of their microbial and faunal communities. Our study focused on the temporal dynamics and spatial distributions of sunken wood bacterial communities, which were deployed in the vicinity of different cold seeps in the Eastern Mediterranean and the Norwegian deep-seas. By combining fingerprinting of bacterial communities by ARISA and 454 sequencing with in situ and ex situ biogeochemical measurements, we show that sunken wood logs have a locally confined long-term impact (> 3y) on the sediment geochemistry and community structure. We confirm previous hypotheses of different successional stages in wood degradation including a sulphophilic one, attracting chemosynthetic fauna from nearby seep systems. Wood experiments deployed at similar water depths (1100-1700 m), but in hydrographically different oceanic regions harbored different wood-boring bivalves, opportunistic faunal communities, and chemosynthetic species. Similarly, bacterial communities on sunken wood logs were more similar within one geographic region than between different seas. Diverse sulphate-reducing bacteria of the Deltaproteobacteria, the sulphide-oxidizing bacteria Sulfurovum as well as members of the Acidimicrobiia and Bacteroidia dominated the wood falls in the Eastern Mediterranean, while Alphaproteobacteria and Flavobacteriia colonized the Norwegian Sea wood logs. Fauna and bacterial wood-associated communities changed between 1 to 3 years of immersion, with sulphate-reducers and sulphide -oxidizers increasing in proportion, and putative cellulose degraders decreasing with time. Only 6% of all bacterial genera, comprising the core community, were found at any time on the Eastern Mediterranean sunken wooden logs. This study suggests that biogeography and succession play an important role for the composition of bacteria and fauna of wood-associated communities, and that wood can act as stepping-stones for seep biota.	2017	12	10.1371/journal.pone.0169906	MAYBE	Dave	y
Kumar M; Brader G; Sessitsch A; Maki A; van Elsas JD; Nissinen R	Plants Assemble Species Specific Bacterial Communities from Common Core Taxa in Three Arcto-Alpine Climate Zones	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Evidence for the pivotal role of plant-associated bacteria to plant health and productivity has accumulated rapidly in the last years. However, key questions related to what drives plant bacteriomes remain unanswered, among which is the impact of climate zones on plant-associated microbiota. This is particularly true for wild plants in arcto-alpine biomes. Here, we hypothesized that the bacterial communities associated with pioneer plants in these regions have major roles in plant health support, and this is reflected in the formation of climate and host plant specific endophytic communities. We thus compared the bacteriomes associated with the native perennial plants Oxyria digyna and Saxifraga oppositifolia in three arcto-alpine regions (alpine, low Arctic and high Arctic) with those in the corresponding bulk soils. As expected, the bulk soil bacterial communities in the three regions were significantly different. The relative abundances of Proteobacteria decreased progressively from the alpine to the high-arctic soils, whereas those of Actinobacteria increased. The candidate division AD3 and Acidobacteria abounded in the low Arctic soils. Furthermore, plant species and geographic region were the major determinants of the structures of the endophere communities. The plants in the alpine region had higher relative abundances of Proteobacteria, while plants from the low- and high-arctic regions were dominated by Firmicutes. A highly-conserved shared set of ubiquitous bacterial taxa (core bacteriome) was found to occur in the two plant species. Burkholderiales, Actinomycetales and Rhizobiales were the main taxa in this core, and they were also the main contributors to the differences in the endosphere bacterial community structures across compartments as well as regions. We postulate that the composition of this core is driven by selection by the two plants.	2017	8	10.3389/fmicb.2017.00012	MAYBE	Dave	y
Evans S; Martiny JBH; Allison SD	Effects of dispersal and selection on stochastic assembly in microbial communities	ISME JOURNAL	Stochastic processes can play an important role in microbial community assembly. Dispersal limitation is one process that can increase stochasticity and obscure relationships between environmental variables and microbial community composition, but the relationship between dispersal, selection and stochasticity has not been described in a comprehensive way. We examine how dispersal and its interactions with drift and selection alter the consistency with which microbial communities assemble using a realistic, individual-based model of microbial decomposers. Communities were assembled under different environmental conditions and dispersal rates in repeated simulations, and we examined the compositional difference among replicate communities colonizing the same type of leaf litter (within-group distance), as well as between-group deterministic selection. Dispersal rates below 25% turnover per year resulted in high within-group distance among communities and no significant environmental effects. As dispersal limitation was alleviated, both within- and between-group distance decreased, but despite this homogenization, deterministic environmental effects remained significant. In addition to direct effects of dispersal rate, stochasticity of community composition was influenced by an interaction between dispersal and selection strength. Specifically, communities experiencing stronger selection (less favorable litter chemistries) were more stochastic, possibly because lower biomass and richness intensified drift or priority effects. Overall, we show that dispersal rate can significantly alter patterns of community composition. Partitioning the effects of dispersal, selection and drift based on static patterns of microbial composition will be difficult, if not impossible. Experiments will be required to tease apart these complex interactions between assembly processes shaping microbial communities.	2017	11	10.1038/ismej.2016.96	MAYBE	Dave	y
Na XF; Xu TT; Li M; Ma F; Kardol P	Bacterial diversity in the rhizosphere of two phylogenetically closely related plant species across environmental gradients	JOURNAL OF SOILS AND SEDIMENTS	Purpose Rhizosphere soil bacterial communities are crucial to plant growth, health, and stress resistance. In order to detect how bacterial communities associated with the rhizosphere of phylogenetically related plant species vary in terms of composition, function, and diversity, we investigated the rhizosphere bacterial community structure of two perennial shrub species, Caragana jubata and Caragana roborovskyi, under natural field conditions in northwest China and analyzed the influence of soil properties and environmental factors. Materials and methods Eighteen root samples, eight for C. jubata, and ten for C. roborovskyi, along with any adherent soil particles, were collected from multiple sites in northwest China. The rhizosphere soil was washed from the roots, and bacterial communities were analyzed using Illumina MiSeq sequencing of 16S rRNA gene amplicons. Then, alpha-diversity and beta-diversity were calculated using QIIME. Results and discussion Across species, Proteobacteria (29 %), Actinobacteria (15 %), Chloroflexi (10 %), Acidobacteria (10 %), Bacteroidetes (8 %), Firmicutes (8 %), Planctomycetes (7 %), Gemmatimonadetes (4 %), and Verrucomicrobia (3 %) were themost abundant phyla in the rhizosphere of C. jubata and C. roborovskyi. However, principal co-ordinates analysis indicated strong interspecific patterns of bacterial rhizosphere communities. Further, the richness of Proteobacteria, Acidobacteria, Bacteroidetes, Verrucomicrobia, Firmicutes, and Nitrospirae was significantly higher in the rhizosphere of C. jubata compared with C. roborovskyi, while the opposite was found for Actinobacteria and Cyanobacteria. However, the Shannon index showed no significant difference in alpha-diversity between C. jubata and C. roborovskyi. Distance-based redundancy analysis indicated that soil properties and environmental factors exerted strong influences on the structure of the rhizosphere bacterial community and explained 47 and 46 % of community variances between samples, respectively. Conclusions Our results showed strong interspecific clustering of the bacterial rhizosphere communities of C. roborovskyi and C. jubata. Altitude explained most of the variation in the composition of bacterial rhizosphere communities of C. roborovskyi and C. jubata, followed by soil pH, water content, organic matter content, total nitrogen content, and mean annual rainfall.	2017	17	10.1007/s11368-016-1486-2	MAYBE	Dave	n
Hermans SM; Buckley HL; Case BS; Curran-Cournane F; Taylor M; Lear G	Bacteria as Emerging Indicators of Soil Condition	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Bacterial communities are important for the health and productivity of soil ecosystems and have great potential as novel indicators of environmental per-turbations. To assess how they are affected by anthropogenic activity and to determine their ability to provide alternative metrics of environmental health, we sought to define which soil variables bacteria respond to across multiple soil types and land uses. We determined, through 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing, the composition of bacterial communities in soil samples from 110 natural or human-impacted sites, located up to 300 km apart. Overall, soil bacterial communities varied more in response to changing soil environments than in response to changes in climate or increasing geographic distance. We identified strong correlations between the relative abundances of members of Pirellulaceae and soil pH, members of Gaiellaceae and carbon-to-nitrogen ratios, members of Bradyrhizobium and the levels of Olsen P (a measure of plant available phosphorus), and members of Chitinophagaceae and aluminum concentrations. These relationships between specific soil attributes and individual soil taxa not only highlight ecological characteristics of these organisms but also demonstrate the ability of key bacterial taxonomic groups to reflect the impact of specific anthropogenic activities, even in comparisons of samples across large geographic areas and diverse soil types. Overall, we provide strong evidence that there is scope to use relative taxon abundances as biological indicators of soil condition. IMPORTANCE The impact of land use change and management on soil microbial community composition remains poorly understood. Therefore, we explored the relationship between a wide range of soil factors and soil bacterial community composition. We included variables related to anthropogenic activity and collected samples across a large spatial scale to interrogate the complex relationships between various bacterial community attributes and soil condition. We provide evidence of strong relationships between individual taxa and specific soil attributes even across large spatial scales and soil and land use types. Collectively, we were able to demonstrate the largely untapped potential of microorganisms to indicate the condition of soil and thereby influence the way that we monitor the effects of anthropogenic activity on soil ecosystems into the future.	2017	83	10.1128/AEM.02826-16	MAYBE	Dave	y
Ping YA; Han DX; Wang N; Hu YB; Mu LQ; Feng FJ	Vertical zonation of soil fungal community structure in a Korean pine forest on Changbai Mountain, China	WORLD JOURNAL OF MICROBIOLOGY & BIOTECHNOLOGY	Changbai Mountain, with intact montane vertical vegetation belts, is located at a sensitive area of global climate change and a central distribution area of Korean pine forest. Broad-leaved Korean pine mixed forest (Pinus koraiensis as an edificator) is the most representative zonal climax vegetation in the humid region of northeastern China; their vertical zonation is the most intact and representative on Changbai Mountain. In this study, we analyzed the composition and diversity of soil fungal communities in the Korean pine forest on Changbai Mountain at elevations ranging from 699 to 1177 m using Illumina High-throughput sequencing. We obtained a total 186,663 optimized sequences, with an average length of 268.81 bp. We found soil fungal diversity index was decreased with increasing elevation from 699 to 937 m and began to rise after reaching 1044 m; the richness and evenness indices were decreased with an increase in elevation. Soil fungal compositions at the phylum, class and genus levels varied significantly at different elevations, but with the same dominant fungi. Beta-diversity analysis indicated that the similarity of fungal communities decreased with an increased vertical distance between the sample plots, showing a distance-decay relationship. Variation partition analysis showed that geographic distance (mainly elevation gradient) only explained 20.53 % of the total variation of fungal community structure, while soil physicochemical factors explained 69.78 %.	2017	33	10.1007/s11274-016-2133-1	YES	Dave	n
Lindh MV; Sjostedt J; Casini M; Andersson A; Legrand C; Pinhassi J	Local Environmental Conditions Shape Generalist But Not Specialist Components of Microbial Metacommunities in the Baltic Sea	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Marine microbes exhibit biogeographical patterns linked with fluxes of matter and energy. Yet, knowledge of the mechanisms shaping bacterioplankton community assembly across temporal scales remains poor. We examined bacterioplankton 16S rRNA gene fragments obtained from Baltic Sea transects to determine phylogenetic relatedness and assembly processes coupled with niche breadth. Communities were phylogenetically more related over time than expected by chance, albeit with considerable temporal variation. Hence, habitat filtering, i.e., local environmental conditions, rather than competition structured bacterioplankton communities in summer but not in spring or autumn. Species sorting (SS) was the dominant assembly process, but temporal and taxonomical variation in mechanisms was observed. For May communities, Cyanobacteria, Actinobacteria, Alpha- and Betaproteobacteria exhibited SS while Bacteroidetes and Verrucomicrobia were assembled by SS and mass effect. Concomitantly, Gammaproteobacteria were assembled by the neutral model and patch dynamics. Temporal variation in habitat filtering and dispersal highlights the impact of seasonally driven reorganization of microbial communities. Typically abundant Baltic Sea populations such as the NS3a marine group (Bacteroidetes) and the SAR86 and SAR11 clade had the highest niche breadth. The verrucomicrobial Spartobacteria population also exhibited high niche breadth. Surprisingly, variation in bacterioplankton community composition was regulated by environmental factors for generalist taxa but not specialists. Our results suggest that generalists such as NS3a, SAR86, and SAR11 are reorganized to a greater extent by changes in the environment compared to specialists and contribute more strongly to determining overall biogeographical patterns of marine bacterial communities.	2016	7	10.3389/fmicb.2016.02078	YES	Dave	y
Shi Y; Adams JM; Ni YY; Yang T; Jing X; Chen LT; He JS; Chu HY	The biogeography of soil archaeal communities on the eastern Tibetan Plateau	SCIENTIFIC REPORTS	The biogeographical distribution of soil bacterial communities has been widely investigated. However, there has been little study of the biogeography of soil archaeal communities on a regional scale. Here, using high-throughput sequencing, we characterized the archaeal communities of 94 soil samples across the eastern Tibetan Plateau. Thaumarchaeota was the predominant archael phylum in all the soils, and Halobacteria was dominant only in dry soils. Archaeal community composition was significantly correlated with soil moisture content and C: N ratio, and archaeal phylotype richness was negatively correlated with soil moisture content (r = -0.47, P < 0.01). Spatial distance, a potential measure of the legacy effect of evolutionary and dispersal factors, was less important than measured environmental factors in determining the broad scale archaeal community pattern. These results indicate that soil moisture and C: N ratio are the key factors structuring soil archaeal communities on the eastern Tibetan Plateau. Our findings suggest that archaeal communities have adjusted their distributions rapidly enough to reach range equilibrium in relation to past environmental changes e.g. in water availability and soil nutrient status. This responsiveness may allow better prediction of future responses of soil archaea to environmental change in these sensitive ecosystems.	2016	6	10.1038/srep38893	YES	Dave	y
Grattepanche JD; McManus GB; Katz LA	Patchiness of Ciliate Communities Sampled at Varying Spatial Scales along the New England Shelf	PLOS ONE	Although protists (microbial eukaryotes) provide an important link between bacteria and Metazoa in food webs, we do not yet have a clear understanding of the spatial scales on which protist diversity varies. Here, we use a combination of DNA fingerprinting (denaturant gradient gel electrophoresis or DGGE) and high-throughput sequencing (HTS) to assess the ciliate community in the class Spirotrichea at varying scales of 1-3 km sampled in three locations separated by at least 25 km-offshore, midshelf and inshore-along the New England shelf. Analyses of both abundant community (DGGE) and the total community (HTS) members reveal that: 1) ciliate communities are patchily distributed inshore (i.e. the middle station of a transect is distinct from its two neighboring stations), whereas communities are more homogeneous among samples within the midshelf and offshore stations; 2) a ciliate closely related to Pelagostrobilidium paraepacrum blooms inshore and; 3) environmental factors may differentially impact the distributions of individual ciliates (i.e. OTUs) rather than the community as a whole as OTUs tend to show distinct biogeographies (e.g. some OTUs are restricted to the offshore locations, some to the surface, etc.). Together, these data show the complexity underlying the spatial distributions of marine protists, and suggest that biogeography may be a property of ciliate species rather than communities.	2016	11	10.1371/journal.pone.0167659	MAYBE	Dave	y
Beaton ED; Stevenson BS; King-Sharp KJ; Stamps BW; Nunn HS; Stuart M	Local and Regional Diversity Reveals Dispersal Limitation and Drift as Drivers for Groundwater Bacterial Communities from a Fractured Granite Formation	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Microorganisms found in terrestrial subsurface environments make up a large proportion of the Earths biomass. Biogeochemical cycles catalyzed by subsurface microbes have the potential to influence the speciation and transport of radionuclides managed in geological repositories. To gain insight on factors that constrain microbial processes within a formation with restricted groundwater flow we performed a meta-community analysis on groundwater collected from multiple discrete fractures underlying the Chalk River Laboratories site (located in Ontario, Canada). Bacterial taxa were numerically dominant in the groundwater. Although these were mainly uncultured, the closest cultivated representatives were from the phenotypically diverse Betaproteobacteria, Deltaproteobacteria, Bacteroidetes, Actinobacteria, Nitrospirae, and Firmicutes. Hundreds of taxa were identified but only a few were found in abundance (>1%) across all assemblages. The remainder of the taxa were low abundance. Within an ecological framework of selection, dispersal and drift, the local and regional diversity revealed fewer taxa within each assemblage relative to the meta community, but the taxa that were present were more related than predicted by chance. The combination of dispersion at one phylogenetic depth and clustering at another phylogenetic depth suggest both niche (dispersion) and filtering (clustering) as drivers of local assembly. Distance decay of similarity reveals apparent biogeography of 1.5 km. Beta diversity revealed greater influence of selection at shallow sampling locations while the influences of dispersal limitation and randomness were greater at deeper sampling locations. Although selection has shaped each assemblage, the spatial scale of groundwater sampling favored detection of neutral processes over selective processes. Dispersal limitation between assemblages combined with local selection means the meta-community is subject to drift, and therefore, likely reflects the differential historical events that have influenced the current bacterial composition. Categorizing the study site into smaller regions of interest of more closely spaced fractures, or of potentially hydraulically connected fractures, might improve the resolution of an analysis to reveal environmental influences that have shaped these bacterial communities.	2016	7	10.3389/fmicb.2016.01933	YES	Dave	y
Wang K; Ye XS; Zhang HJ; Chen HP; Zhang DM; Liu L	Regional variations in the diversity and predicted metabolic potential of benthic prokaryotes in coastal northern Zhejiang, East China Sea	Scientific Reports	Knowledge about the drivers of benthic prokaryotic diversity and metabolic potential in interconnected coastal sediments at regional scales is limited. We collected surface sediments across six zones covering similar to 200 km in coastal northern Zhejiang, East China Sea and combined 16 S rRNA gene sequencing, community-level metabolic prediction, and sediment physicochemical measurements to investigate variations in prokaryotic diversity and metabolic gene composition with geographic distance and under local environmental conditions. Geographic distance was the most influential factor in prokaryotic beta-diversity compared with major environmental drivers, including temperature, sediment texture, acid-volatile sulfide, and water depth, but a large unexplained variation in community composition suggested the potential effects of unmeasured abiotic/biotic factors and stochastic processes. Moreover, prokaryotic assemblages showed a biogeographic provincialism across the zones. The predicted metabolic gene composition similarly shifted as taxonomic composition did. Acid-volatile sulfide was strongly correlated with variation in metabolic gene composition. The enrichments in the relative abundance of sulfate-reducing bacteria and genes relevant with dissimilatory sulfate reduction were observed and predicted, respectively, in the Yushan area. These results provide insights into the relative importance of geographic distance and environmental condition in driving benthic prokaryotic diversity in coastal areas and predict specific biogeochemically-relevant genes for future studies.	2016	6	10.1038/srep38709	YES	Dave	y
Zeng J; Zhao DY; Li HB; Huang R; Wang JJ; Wu QLL	A monotonically declining elevational pattern of bacterial diversity in freshwater lake sediments	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	The distribution patterns of bacterial communities along elevational gradients remain unexplored in aquatic ecosystems. This study investigated the diversity and community composition of bacteria in the sediments of lakes along a mountainside elevational gradient from 525 to 4 490 m in western China. The bacterial alpha diversity (taxonomic richness and phylogenetic diversity) at different sediment depths decreased monotonically with the increasing elevation, and the beta diversity (dissimilarity between lakes) increased significantly with the increasing elevation distance. Both elevation and chemical variables including pH and carbon/nitrogen ratio were identified as major factors affecting the bacterial diversity. Especially, bacterial alpha/beta diversity was significantly related to both chemical and elevational gradients in the surface sediments, whereas elevation overwhelmed chemical factors in influencing the bacterial alpha/beta diversity in the subsurface sediments. Phylogenetic structure analysis demonstrated that environmental filtering was the most important process affecting the bacterial community assembly along the elevational gradient, and the strength of environmental filtering increased towards high elevations. In summary, we observed for the first time a monotonically decreasing elevational pattern in bacterial diversity of freshwater lake sediments, which is mainly driven by elevation associated environmental factors.	2016	18	10.1111/1462-2920.13526	YES	Dave	y
Schiaffino MR; Lara E; Fernandez LD; Balague V; Singer D; Seppey CCW; Massana R; Izaguirre I	Microbial eukaryote communities exhibit robust biogeographical patterns along a gradient of Patagonian and Antarctic lakes	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Microbial eukaryotes play important roles in aquatic ecosystem functioning. Unravelling their distribution patterns and biogeography provides important baseline information to infer the underlying mechanisms that regulate the biodiversity and complexity of ecosystems. We studied the distribution patterns and factors driving diversity gradients in microeukaryote communities (total, abundant, uncommon and rare community composition) along a latitudinal gradient of lakes distributed from Argentinean Patagonia to Maritime Antarctica using both denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) and high-throughput sequencing (Illumina HiSeq). DGGE and abundant Illumina operational taxonomic units (OTUs) showed both decreasing richness with latitude and significant differences between Patagonian and Antarctic lakes communities. In contrast, total richness did not change significantly across the latitudinal gradient, although evenness and diversity indices were significantly higher in Patagonian lakes. Beta-diversity was characterized by a high species turnover, influenced by both environmental and geographical descriptors, although this pattern faded in the rare community. Our results suggest the co-existence of a core biosphere containing reduced number of abundant/dominant OTUs on which classical ecological rules apply, together with a much larger seedbank of rare OTUs driven by stochastic and reduced dispersal processes. These findings shed new light on the biogeographical patterns and forces structuring inland microeukaryote composition across broad spatial scales.	2016	18	10.1111/1462-2920.13566	YES	Dave	y
Sakaeva A; Sokol ER; Kohler TJ; Stanish LF; Spaulding SA; Howkins A; Welch KA; Lyons WB; Barrett JE; McKnight DM	Evidence for dispersal and habitat controls on pond diatom communities from the McMurdo Sound Region of Antarctica	POLAR BIOLOGY	Microbial life flourishes in the ponds of the McMurdo Sound Region, which includes the McMurdo Dry Valleys (MDV) and the exposed coastal areas of Ross Island, Antarctica. Diatoms live within resident microbial mats, and because of the simplified trophic structure and limited dispersal vectors, the McMurdo Sound Region is an ideal locality to investigate diatom community assembly processes. Wind is hypothesized to transport microbiota between habitats, and following the species-sorting perspective, local conditions should act as an environmental filter. However, the role of spatial scale versus habitat characteristics on diatom community structure has not been investigated. To gain insight into these processes, we sampled microbial mats from 25 ponds and used variation partitioning to assess the spatial scales at which diatoms were influenced by chemistry and physical variables. We found substantial spatial structure in diatom communities, and spatial scale explained more variability than environmental variables. No diatoms were exclusive to Ross Island, but some species were only found in the MDVs. Furthermore, diatom communities were more likely to resemble those from other nearby ponds rather than distant ones, regardless of environmental conditions. Of the environmental variables, bromide and chloride (both indicators of marine influence) were among the most important. These results suggest that geography, dispersal, and historical environmental conditions play a major role in structuring diatom communities at large spatial scales, and chemistry may be more important within regions. These results help explain the biogeography of diatoms here and elsewhere and expand our knowledge of mechanisms influencing microbial metacommunity structure.	2016	39	10.1007/s00300-016-1901-6	YES	Dave	y
Gourmelon V; Maggia L; Powell JR; Gigante S; Hortal S; Gueunier C; Letellier K; Carriconde F	Environmental and Geographical Factors Structure Soil Microbial Diversity in New Caledonian Ultramafic Substrates: A Metagenomic Approach	PLOS ONE	Soil microorganisms play key roles in ecosystem functioning and are known to be influenced by biotic and abiotic factors, such as plant cover or edaphic parameters. New Caledonia, a biodiversity hotspot located in the southwest Pacific, is one-third covered by ultramafic substrates. These types of soils are notably characterised by low nutrient content and high heavy metal concentrations. Ultramafic outcrops harbour diverse vegetation types and remarkable plant diversity. In this study, we aimed to assess soil bacterial and fungal diversity in New Caledonian ultramafic substrates and to determine whether floristic composition, edaphic parameters and geographical factors affect this microbial diversity. Therefore, four plant formation types at two distinct sites were studied. These formations represent different stages in a potential chronosequence. Soil cores, according to a given sampling procedure, were collected to assess microbial diversity using a metagenomic approach, and to characterise the physico-chemical parameters. A botanical inventory was also performed. Our results indicated that microbial richness, composition and abundance were linked to the plant cover type and the dominant plant species. Furthermore, a large proportion of Ascomycota phylum (fungi), mostly in non-rainforest formations, and Planctomycetes phylum (bacteria) in all formations were observed. Interestingly, such patterns could be indicators of past disturbances that occurred on different time scales. Furthermore, the bacteria and fungi were influenced by diverse edaphic parameters as well as by the interplay between these two soil communities. Another striking finding was the existence of a site effect. Differences in microbial communities between geographical locations may be explained by dispersal limitation in the context of the biogeographical island theory. In conclusion, each plant formation at each site possesses is own microbial community resulting from multiple interactions between abiotic and biotic factors.	2016	11	10.1371/journal.pone.0167405	MAYBE	Dave	y
Kim JM; Roh AS; Choi SC; Kim EJ; Choi MT; Ahn BK; Kim SK; Lee YH; Joa JH; Kang SS; Lee SA; Ahn JH; Song J; Weon HY	Soil pH and electrical conductivity are key edaphic factors shaping bacterial communities of greenhouse soils in Korea	JOURNAL OF MICROBIOLOGY	Soil microorganisms play an essential role in soil ecosystem processes such as organic matter decomposition, nutrient cycling, and plant nutrient availability. The land use for greenhouse cultivation has been increasing continuously, which involves an intensive input of agricultural materials to enhance productivity; however, relatively little is known about bacterial communities in greenhouse soils. To assess the effects of environmental factors on the soil bacterial diversity and community composition, a total of 187 greenhouse soil samples collected across Korea were subjected to bacterial 16S rRNA gene pyrosequencing analysis. A total of 11,865 operational taxonomic units at a 97% similarity cutoff level were detected from 847,560 sequences. Among nine soil factors evaluated; pH, electrical conductivity (EC), exchangeable cations (Ca2+, Mg2+, Na+, and K+), available P2O5, organic matter, and NO3-N, soil pH was most strongly correlated with bacterial richness (polynomial regression, pH: R-2 = 0.1683, P < 0.001) and diversity (pH: R-2 = 0.1765, P < 0.001). Community dissimilarities (Bray-Curtis distance) were positively correlated with Euclidean distance for pH and EC (Mantel test, pH: r = 0.2672, P < 0.001; EC: r = 0.1473, P < 0.001). Among dominant phyla (> 1%), the relative abundances of Proteobacteria, Gemmatimonadetes, Acidobacteria, Bacteroidetes, Chloroflexi, and Planctomycetes were also more strongly correlated with pH and EC values, compared with other soil cation contents, such as Ca2+, Mg2+, Na+, and K+. Our results suggest that, despite the heterogeneity of various environmental variables, the bacterial communities of the intensively cultivated greenhouse soils were particularly influenced by soil pH and EC. These findings therefore shed light on the soil microbial ecology of greenhouse cultivation, which should be helpful for devising effective management strategies to enhance soil microbial diversity and improving crop productivity.	2016	54	10.1007/s12275-016-6526-5	YES	Dave	n
Almasia R; Caru M; Handford M; Orlando J	Environmental conditions shape soil bacterial community structure in a fragmented landscape	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	Several biogeographical hypotheses have been proposed to explain microbial distribution, but there is ongoing debate about the magnitude of the contribution of niche based processes and historical contingencies in determining patterns of microbial structure. In this context, currently fragmented relict forests of olivillo (Aextoxicon punctatum Ruiz et. Pay.), which belonged to a continuous community along the coast of Chile during the Pleistocene, and their surrounding scrublands are ideally suited for testing these hypotheses, since they remain as patches located at the northern tip of the distribution of the relicts. In each study site, edaphic and geographic variables were determined, and the bacterial structures were evaluated at the genetic and metabolic levels through fingerprint approaches along with multivariate analytical methods including redundancy (RDA) and variance partitioning (VPA) analyses. Forests possessed lower pH, and higher contents of moisture and organic matter. In addition, bacterial communities from both habitats differed, whereas the bacterial communities of the forests in different regions were very similar to each other. Our conclusion is that current abiotic soil factors, but not past events due to the historical connection of the forests, account for the variance in the structure of these soil bacterial communities. (C) 2016 Published by Elsevier Ltd.	2016	103	10.1016/j.soilbio.2016.08.004	YES	Dave	n
Yuan HY; Ding LJ; Wang N; Chen SC; Deng Y; Li XM; Zhu YG	Geographic distance and amorphous iron affect the abundance and distribution of Geobacteraceae in paddy soils in China	JOURNAL OF SOILS AND SEDIMENTS	Purpose Geobacteraceae are important dissimilatory Fe (III)-reducing microorganisms, influencing the cycling of metals, nutrients as well as the degradation of organic contaminants. However, little is known about their distribution, diversity, and abundance of Geobacteraceae and the effects of environment factors and geographic distance on the distribution and diversity of Geobacteraceae in paddy soils remain unclear. Therefore, the objectives of this study were to investigate the distribution, diversity, and abundance of Geobacteraceae in paddy soils and to determine key factors in shaping the Geobacteraceae distribution, environmental factors, geographic distance, or both and to quantify their contribution to Geobacteraceae variation. Materials and methods Illumina sequencing and quantitative real-time PCR using a primer set targeting 16S rRNA genes of bacteria affiliated with the family Geobacteraceae were employed to measure the community composition, diversity, and abundance patterns of 16S rRNA genes of Geobacteraceae in 16 samples collected from north to south of China. MRT, Mantel test, and VPA were used to analyze the relationship between communities of Geobacteraceae and environmental factors and geographic distance. Results and discussion Quantitative PCR showed that the abundance of 16S rRNA genes of Geobacteraceae ranged from (1.20 +/- 0.18)x10(8) to 1.13x10(9)+/- 2.25x10(8) copies per gram of soil (dry weight) across different types of soils. Illumina sequencing results showed Geobacter was the dominant genus within the family of Geobacteraceae. Multivariate regression tree (MRT) analysis showed that soil amorphous iron contributed more (22.46 %) to the variation of dominant species of Geobacteraceae than other examined soil chemical factors such as pH (14.52 %), ammonium (5.12 %), and dissolved organic carbon (4.74 %). Additionally, more geographically distant sites harbored less similar communities. Variance partitioning analysis (VPA) showed that geographic distance contributed more to the variation of Geobacteraceae than any other factor, although the environmental factors explained more variation when combined. So, we detected the uneven distribution of Geobacteraceae in paddy soils of China and demonstrated that Geobacteraceae community composition was strongly associated with geographic distance and soil chemical factors including aFe, pH, Fe, DOC, C: N, and NO3--N. These results greatly expand the knowledge of the distribution of Geobacteraceae in environments, particularly in terrestrial ecosystems. Conclusions Our results showed that geographic distance and amorphous iron played important roles in shaping Geobacteraceae community composition and revealed that both geographic distance and soil properties governed Geobacteraceae biogeography in paddy soils. Our findings will be critical in facilitating the prediction of element cycling by incorporating information on functional microbial communities into current biogeochemical models.	2016	16	10.1007/s11368-016-1462-x	YES	Dave	y
Herlemann DPR; Lundin D; Andersson AF; Labrenz M; Jurgens K	Phylogenetic Signals of Salinity and Season in Bacterial Community Composition Across the Salinity Gradient of the Baltic Sea	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Understanding the key processes that control bacterial community composition has enabled predictions of bacterial distribution and function within ecosystems. In this study, we used the Baltic Sea as a model system to quantify the phylogenetic signal of salinity and season with respect to bacterioplankton community composition. The abundances of 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing reads were analyzed from samples obtained from similar geographic locations in July and February along a brackish to marine salinity gradient in the Baltic Sea. While there was no distinct pattern of bacterial richness at different salinities, the number of bacterial phylotypes in winter was significantly higher than in summer. Bacterial community composition in brackish vs. marine conditions, and in July vs. February was significantly different. Non-metric multidimensional scaling showed that bacterial community composition was primarily separated according to salinity and secondly according to seasonal differences at all taxonomic ranks tested. Similarly, quantitative phylogenetic clustering implicated a phylogenetic signal for both salinity and seasonality. Our results suggest that global patterns of bacterial community composition with respect to salinity and season are the result of phylogenetically clustered ecological preferences with stronger imprints from salinity.	2016	7	10.3389/fmicb.2016.01883	MAYBE	Dave	y
Yang J; Jiang HC; Wu G; Liu W; Zhang GJ	Distinct Factors Shape Aquatic and Sedimentary Microbial Community Structures in the Lakes of Western China	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Little is known about the relative importance of spatial and environmental factors to structuring aquatic and sedimentary microbial biogeography in lakes. Here, we investigated the microbial community composition (MCC) of the water (n = 35) and sediment (n = 35) samples from 16 lakes in western China (salinity: freshwater to salt saturation; pairwise geographical distance: 9-2027 km) using high-throughput sequencing and evaluated the relative importance of spatial and environmental factors to microbial (including total, abundant, and rare) distributions. Our results showed that spatial factors were more important than environmental factors in shaping the biogeography of aquatic and sedimentary microbial communities in the studied lakes, and spatial factors on abundant microbial community was stronger than that on the total/rare microbial communities. Moreover, sedimentary rare MCC might be more sensitive to environmental factors than its aquatic counterpart. Such different biogeography responses of total, abundant, and rare communities to environmental and spatial factors could be ascribed to different physiochemical properties between water and sediment. Collectively, this study expands our understanding of factors shaping microbial biogeography of total, abundant, and rare communities between waters and sediments of lakes.	2016	7	10.3389/fmicb.2016.01782	YES	Dave	y
Liao JQ; Zhao L; Cao XF; Sun JH; Gao Z; Wang J; Jiang DL; Fan H; Huang Y	Cyanobacteria in lakes on Yungui Plateau, China are assembled via niche processes driven by water physicochemical property, lake morphology and watershed land-use	SCIENTIFIC REPORTS	Plateau lakes are important ecosystems with diverse ecological functions. Cyanobacteria play a key role in plateau lakes as primary producers. However, they are threatening when dense blooms occur. Identifying cyanobacteiral biogeography and the mechanism of assembly processes shaping the distribution of cyanobacteria in plateau lakes is critical for understanding cyanobacterial ecology and applying it to lake management. In the present study, the biogeographic pattern and importance of neutral and niche processes in assembly of cyanobacteria in 21 lakes on Yungui Plateau, China were examined. Results showed that cyanobacteria exhibit unique biogeographic pattern, and most of them have a narrow habitat preference in plateau lakes. They were assembled via niche processes driven by water physicochemical property, lake morphology and watershed land-use, which explained 62.4% of the biological variation. Neutral processes were not at play. Water physicochemical property ( key variables - dissolved oxygen, salinity, trophic status and pH) was the most dominant driver shaping its unique biogeographic pattern. Watershed land-use especially urban land, water body and agricultural land also exhibited a strong impact on cyanobacterial distribution, followed by lake morphology. As most of the cyanobacteiral genus detected in these plateau lakes were potential toxin-producers, this study indicated that in order to protect waters from toxic-bloom in the future, reducing nutrient loading and land-use practices are two practical approaches in plateau lake management.	2016	6	10.1038/srep36357	YES	Dave	y
Fort T; Robin C; Capdevielle X; Deliere L; Vacher C	Foliar fungal communities strongly differ between habitat patches in a landscape mosaic	PEERJ	Background: Dispersal events between habitat patches in a landscape mosaic can structure ecological communities and influence the functioning of agrosystems. Here we investigated whether short-distance dispersal events between vineyard and forest patches shape foliar fungal communities. We hypothesized that these communities homogenize between habitats over the course of the growing season, particularly along habitat edges, because of aerial dispersal of spores. Methods: We monitored the richness and composition of foliar and airborne fungal communities over the season, along transects perpendicular to edges between vineyard and forest patches, using Illumina sequencing of the Internal Transcribed Spacer 2 (ITS2) region. Results: In contrast to our expectation, foliar fungal communities in vineyards and forest patches increasingly differentiate over the growing season, even along habitat edges. Moreover, the richness of foliar fungal communities in grapevine drastically decreased over the growing season, in contrast to that of forest trees. The composition of airborne communities did not differ between habitats. The composition of oak foliar fungal communities change between forest edge and centre. Discussion: These results suggest that dispersal events between habitat patches are not major drivers of foliar fungal communities at the landscape scale. Selective pressures exerted in each habitat by the host plant, the microclimate and the agricultural practices play a greater role, and might account for the differentiation of foliar fugal communities between habitats.	2016	4	10.7717/peerj.2656	YES	Dave	y
Bik HM; Maritz JM; Luong A; Shin HD; Dominguez-Bello MG; Carlton JM	Microbial Community Patterns Associated with Automated Teller Machine Keypads in New York City	MSPHERE	In densely populated urban environments, the distribution of microbes and the drivers of microbial community assemblages are not well understood. In sprawling metropolitan habitats, the urban microbiome may represent a mix of human-associated and environmental taxa. Here we carried out a baseline study of automated teller machine (ATM) keypads in New York City (NYC). Our goal was to describe the biodiversity and biogeography of both prokaryotic and eukaryotic microbes in an urban setting while assessing the potential source of microbial assemblages on ATM keypads. Microbial swab samples were collected from three boroughs (Manhattan, Queens, and Brooklyn) during June and July 2014, followed by generation of Illumina MiSeq datasets for bacterial (16S rRNA) and eukaryotic (18S rRNA) marker genes. Downstream analysis was carried out in the QIIME pipeline, in conjunction with neighborhood metadata (ethnicity, population, age groups) from the NYC Open Data portal. Neither the 16S nor 18S rRNA datasets showed any clustering patterns related to geography or neighborhood demographics. Bacterial assemblages on ATM keypads were dominated by taxonomic groups known to be associated with human skin communities (Actinobacteria, Bacteroides, Firmicutes, and Proteobacteria), although SourceTracker analysis was unable to identify the source habitat for the majority of taxa. Eukaryotic assemblages were dominated by fungal taxa as well as by a low-diversity protist community containing both free-living and potentially pathogenic taxa (Toxoplasma, Trichomonas). Our results suggest that ATM keypads amalgamate microbial assemblages from different sources, including the human microbiome, eukaryotic food species, and potentially novel extremophilic taxa adapted to air or surfaces in the built environment. DNA obtained from ATM keypads may thus provide a record of both human behavior and environmental sources of microbes. IMPORTANCE Automated teller machine (ATM) keypads represent a specific and unexplored microhabitat for microbial communities. Although the number of built environment and urban microbial ecology studies has expanded greatly in recent years, the majority of research to date has focused on mass transit systems, city soils, and plumbing and ventilation systems in buildings. ATM surfaces, potentially retaining microbial signatures of human inhabitants, including both commensal taxa and pathogens, are interesting from both a biodiversity perspective and a public health perspective. By focusing on ATM keypads in different geographic areas of New York City with distinct population demographics, we aimed to characterize the diversity and distribution of both prokaryotic and eukaryotic microbes, thus making a unique contribution to the growing body of work focused on the urban microbiome. In New York City, the surface area of urban surfaces in Manhattan far exceeds the geographic area of the island itself. We have only just begun to describe the vast array of microbial taxa that are likely to be present across diverse types of urban habitats.	2016	1	10.1128/mSphere.00226-16	YES	Dave	y
Liao JQ; Cao XF; Zhao L; Wang J; Gao Z; Wang MC; Huang Y	The importance of neutral and niche processes for bacterial community assembly differs between habitat generalists and specialists	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	The mechanisms of community assembly are a central focus in the field of microbial ecology. However, to what extent these mechanisms differ in importance by traits of groups is poorly understood. Here we quantified the importance of neutral and niche processes in community assembly for bacteria, habitat specialists and generalists in 21 plateau lakes of China. Results showed that both neutral and niche processes played a critical role in the assembly of entire bacterial communities, shaping a unique biogeographical pattern. A few habitat generalists and many specialists were identified. Interestingly, habitat specialists were only governed by niche process, with seven significant environmental variables-salinity, dissolved oxygen, water transparency, total phosphorus, ammonium-nitrogen, temperature and total nitrogen-independently explaining 40.3% of the biological variation. By contrast, habitat generalists were strongly driven by neutral process, with 50.9% of the variation of detection frequency explained in neutral community model. Only three environmental variables-salinity, total nitrogen and dissolved oxygen-significantly affected the distribution of habitat generalists, independently explaining 13.6% of the variation. Governed by different assembly mechanisms, habitat specialists and generalists presented disparate biogeographical patterns. Our result emphasizes the importance of investigating the bacterial community assembly at more refined levels than entire communities.This work shows the biogeography of the entire bacterial communities, specialists and generalists in 21 lakes on Yungui Plateau, China and differentiates the assembly mechanisms for specialists and generalists.This work shows the biogeography of the entire bacterial communities, specialists and generalists in 21 lakes on Yungui Plateau, China and differentiates the assembly mechanisms for specialists and generalists.	2016	92	10.1093/femsec/fiw174	MAYBE	Dave	y
Yashiro E; Pinto-Figueroa E; Buri A; Spangenberg JE; Adatte T; Niculita-Hirzel H; Guisan A; van der Meer JR	Local Environmental Factors Drive Divergent Grassland Soil Bacterial Communities in the Western Swiss Alps	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Mountain ecosystems are characterized by a diverse range of climatic and topographic conditions over short distances and are known to shelter a high biodiversity. Despite important progress, still little is known on bacterial diversity in mountain areas. Here, we investigated soil bacterial biogeography at more than 100 sampling sites randomly stratified across a 700-km(2) area with 2,200-m elevation gradient in the western Swiss Alps. Bacterial grassland communities were highly diverse, with 12,741 total operational taxonomic units (OTUs) across 100 sites and an average of 2,918 OTUs per site. Bacterial community structure was correlated with local climatic, topographic, and soil physicochemical parameters with high statistical significance. We found pH (correlated with % CaO and % mineral carbon), hydrogen index (correlated with bulk gravimetric water content), and annual average number of frost days during the growing season to be among the groups of the most important environmental drivers of bacterial community structure. In contrast, bacterial community structure was only weakly stratified as a function of elevation. Contrasting patterns were discovered for individual bacterial taxa. Acidobacteria responded both positively and negatively to pH extremes. Various families within the Bacteroidetes responded to available phosphorus levels. Different verrucomicrobial groups responded to electrical conductivity, total organic carbon, water content, and mineral carbon contents. Alpine grassland bacterial communities are thus highly diverse, which is likely due to the large variety of different environmental conditions. These results shed new light on the biodiversity of mountain ecosystems, which were already identified as potentially fragile to anthropogenic influences and climate change. IMPORTANCE This article addresses the question of how microbial communities in alpine regions are dependent on local climatic and soil physicochemical variables. We benefit from a unique 700-km2 study region in the western Swiss Alps region, which has been exhaustively studied for macro-organismal and fungal ecology, and for topoclimatic modeling of future ecological trends, but without taking into account soil bacterial diversity. Here, we present an in-depth biogeographical characterization of the bacterial community diversity in this alpine region across 100 randomly stratified sites, using 56 environmental variables. Our exhaustive sampling ensured the detection of ecological trends with high statistical robustness. Our data both confirm previously observed general trends and show many new detailed trends for a wide range of bacterial taxonomic groups and environmental parameters.	2016	82	10.1128/AEM.01170-16	YES	Dave	y
Mousing EA; Richardson K; Bendtsen J; Cetinic I; Perry MJ	Evidence of small-scale spatial structuring of phytoplankton alpha- and beta-diversity in the open ocean	JOURNAL OF ECOLOGY	Phytoplankton assemblages in the open ocean are usually assumed to be mixed on local scales unless large semi-permanent density discontinuities separating water masses are present. Recent modelling studies have, however, suggested that ephemeral submesoscale oceanographic features leading to only subtle density discontinuities may be important for controlling phytoplankton alpha- and beta-diversity patterns. Until now, no empirical evidence has been presented to support this hypothesis. Using hydrographic and taxonomic composition data collected near Iceland during the period of the 2008 spring bloom, we show that the distribution of phytoplankton alpha- and beta-diversity was related to submesoscale heterogeneity in oceanographic conditions. Distinct phytoplankton communities as well as differences in richness were identified on either side of a front delimiting surface waters of slightly different (0.03) salinities. Alpha-diversity was significantly higher on the high salinity side of the front compared to the low salinity side. This difference was primarily driven by the presence of several large diatom species in the high salinity region, especially of the genus Chaetoceros which dominated the biomass here. By investigating beta-diversity in relation to environmental and spatiotemporal variables, we show that the regional distribution of phytoplankton taxa was influenced by both different environmental conditions on either side of the front and dispersal limitation across the front. Changes in beta-diversity were primarily driven by turnover rather than nestedness and were apparently controlled by different processes in each region.Synthesis. This study shows that small-scale and ephemeral density discontinuities created by submesoscale frontal dynamics can play a major role in structuring patterns of phytoplankton diversity. Evidence is presented that they can generate changes in environmental conditions (leading to environmental filtering) and act as physical (dispersal) barriers for phytoplankton transport. The study suggests that dispersal barriers are potentially of much greater importance for phytoplankton diversity at local scales than currently recognized and indicates that drivers of marine phytoplankton diversity are similar to those structuring diversity of land plants.	2016	104	10.1111/1365-2745.12634	YES	Dave	y
Azovsky AI; Tikhonenkov DV; Mazei YA	An Estimation of the Global Diversity and Distribution of the Smallest Eukaryotes: Biogeography of Marine Benthic Heterotrophic Flagellates	PROTIST	Protists are ubiquitous, but the factors influencing their diversity and biogeography remain unclear. We use a comprehensive database on the marine benthic heterotrophic flagellate (HF) morphospecies to explore the worldwide patterns in their diversity and distribution in comparison with predictions of the Ubiquity model (UM) and Moderate Endemicity model (MEM). The number of known HF morphospecies was limited (even when considering the rates of descriptions), and the local-to-global diversity ratio was relatively high (10-25%). Regional diversity was highly correlated with the investigative effort, indicating considerable under-exploration. Regional endemics were few (not over 19% of total richness), and many morphospecies were widespread or even cosmopolitan. No obvious latitudinal trend in HF diversity was detected. By species composition, the regions were distinctly arranged into three groups according to cold, temperate and warm waters, but not in accordance with geographical distances. This distribution pattern was most likely explained by contemporary climate (temperature) but did not suggest clear geographical barriers for dispersal. Therefore, the HF are less concordant with the MEM predictions but closer to the UM than other (larger) protists. Molecular studies reveal significantly higher HF diversity; the distributional patterns obtained from genetic-and morphology-based data, however, complement but not generally contradict each other. (C) 2016 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.	2016	167	10.1016/j.protis.2016.07.001	YES	Dave	y
Zhao F; Xu KD	Molecular diversity and distribution pattern of ciliates in sediments from deep-sea hydrothermal vents in the Okinawa Trough and adjacent sea areas	DEEP-SEA RESEARCH PART I-OCEANOGRAPHIC RESEARCH PAPERS	In comparison with the macrobenthos and prokaryotes, patterns of diversity and distribution of microbial eukaryotes in deep-sea hydrothermal vents are poorly known. The widely used high-throughput sequencing of 18S rDNA has revealed a high diversity of microeukaryotes yielded from both living organisms and buried DNA in marine sediments. More recently, cDNA surveys have been utilized to uncover the diversity of active organisms. However, both methods have never been used to evaluate the diversity of ciliates in hydrothermal vents. By using high-throughput DNA and cDNA sequencing of 18S rDNA, we evaluated the molecular diversity of ciliates, a representative group of microbial eukaryotes, from the sediments of deep-sea hydrothermal vents in the Okinawa Trough and compared it with that of an adjacent deep-sea area about 15 km away and that of an offshore area of the Yellow Sea about 500 km away. The results of DNA sequencing showed that Spirotrichea and Oligohymenophorea were the most diverse and abundant groups in all the three habitats. The proportion of sequences of Oligohymenophorea was the highest in the hydrothermal vents whereas Spirotrichea was the most diverse group at all three habitats. Plagiopyleans were found only in the hydrothermal vents but with low diversity and abundance. By contrast, the cDNA sequencing showed that Plagiopylea was the most diverse and most abundant group in the hydrothermal vents, followed by Spirotrichea in terms of diversity and Oligohymenophorea in terms of relative abundance. A novel group of ciliates, distinctly separate from the 12 known classes, was detected in the hydrothermal vents, indicating undescribed, possibly highly divergent ciliates may inhabit this environment. Statistical analyses showed that: (i) the three habitats differed significantly from one another in terms of diversity of both the rare and the total ciliate taxa, and; (ii) the adjacent deep sea was more similar to the offshore area than to the hydrothermal vents. In terms of the diversity of abundant taxa, however, there was no significant difference between the hydrothermal vents and the adjacent deep sea, both of which differed significantly from the offshore area. As abundant ciliate taxa can be found in several sampling sites, they are likely adapted to large environmental variations, while rare taxa are found in specific habitat and thus are potentially more sensitive to varying environmental conditions. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2016	116	10.1016/j.dsr.2016.07.007	MAYBE	Dave	n
Gumiere T; Durrer A; Bohannan BJM; Andreote FD	Biogeographical patterns in fungal communities from soils cultivated with sugarcane	JOURNAL OF BIOGEOGRAPHY	AimDespite the important roles that microbial communities play world-wide, relatively little attention has been given to the processes that shape their distributions. Of those studies that have addressed this question, the vast majority has focused on temperate regions and relatively undisturbed environments. In particular, tropical agricultural environments have been rarely studied, and it is commonly assumed that agriculture reduces spatial variation in microbial communities, especially in soil. Here, we evaluated the diversity and abundance of fungal communities in soils used for the cultivation of the worlds largest crop, sugarcane, in the worlds largest producer, Brazil. LocationState of SAo Paulo, Brazil. MethodsOur study sampled across 23,022km(2) of the State of SAo Paulo, Brazil, in an area that is a major producer of sugarcane. The composition of the fungal communities was estimated via terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) analysis, and the fungal abundance was estimated by quantitative PCR (qPCR). ResultsWe observed that the variance in community composition explained by soil characteristics was 2.88%, and that explained by climate variables was 2.93%. In contrast, geographical distance explained 50.75% of the variance. Moreover, the distribution of fungal species abundance fits a neutral model that assumes only dispersal and drift better, rather than models that assume environmental filtering. Main conclusionsOur work demonstrates that fungal communities in soil can exhibit biogeographical patterns, even in agricultural soils, and that these patterns are likely to be due at least in part to dispersal limitation.	2016	43	10.1111/jbi.12775	YES	Dave	y
Louca S; Parfrey LW; Doebeli M	Decoupling function and taxonomy in the global ocean microbiome	SCIENCE	Microbial metabolism powers biogeochemical cycling in Earths ecosystems. The taxonomic composition of microbial communities varies substantially between environments, but the ecological causes of this variation remain largely unknown. We analyzed taxonomic and functional community profiles to determine the factors that shape marine bacterial and archaeal communities across the global ocean. By classifying >30,000 marine microorganisms into metabolic functional groups, we were able to disentangle functional from taxonomic community variation. We find that environmental conditions strongly influence the distribution of functional groups in marine microbial communities by shaping metabolic niches, but only weakly influence taxonomic composition within individual functional groups. Hence, functional structure and composition within functional groups constitute complementary and roughly independent axes of variation shaped by markedly different processes.	2016	353	10.1126/science.aaf4507	YES	Dave	y
Zu QH; Zhong LH; Deng Y; Shi Y; Wang BZ; Jia ZJ; Lin XG; Feng YZ	Geographical Distribution of Methanogenic Archaea in Nine Representative Paddy Soils in China	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Paddy field methanogenic archaea are responsible for methane (CH4) production and contribute significantly to climate change. The information regarding the spatial variations in the abundance, the diversity and the composition of such ecologically important microbes, however, is quite limited at large scale. In this investigation, we studied the abundance, alpha diversity and geographical distribution of methanogenic archaeal communities in nine representative paddy sites, along a large latitudinal gradient in China, using pyrosequencing and real-time quantitative PCR. It is found that all paddy soils harbor constant methanogenic archaeal constituents, which is dominated by family Methanocellaceae (37.3%), Methanobacteriaceae (22.1%), Methanosaetaceae (17.2%), and Methanosarcinaceae (9.8%). Methanogenic archaeal abundance is primarily influenced by soil C (R = 0.612, P = 0.001) and N (R = 0.673, P = 0.001) contents, as well as alpha diversity by soil pH (PD: R = -0.552, P = 0.006; Chao1: R = -0.615, P = 0.002). Further exploration revealed that both spatial distance (R = 0.3469, P = 0.001, partial mental test) and soil chemical variables mainly about soil C and N (R = 0.2847, P = 0.001) are the two major factors affecting methanogenic archaeal community composition distribution in paddy soils. This finding will allow us to develop a better picture of the biogeographic ranges of these ecologically important microbes and get deeper insights into their ecology.	2016	7	10.3389/fmicb.2016.01447	YES	Dave	y
Zhao F; Qin YH; Zheng X; Zhao HW; Chai DY; Li W; Pu MX; Zuo XS; Qian W; Ni P; Zhang Y; Mei H; He ST	Biogeography and Adaptive evolution of Streptomyces Strains from saline environments	SCIENTIFIC REPORTS	The genus Streptomyces is a widespread genus within the phylum Actinobacteria and has been isolated from various environments worldwide. However, little is known about whether biogeography affects distributional pattern of Streptomyces in salty environments. Such information is essential for understanding the ecology of Streptomyces. Here we analyzed four house-keeping genes (16S rRNA, rpoB, recA and atpD) and salty-tolerance related genes (ectA-ectD) of 38 Streptomyces strains isolated from saline environments in Yunnan and Xinjiang Provinces of western China. The obtained Streptomyces strains were classified into three operational taxonomic units, each comprising habitat-specific geno-and ecotype STs. In combination with expressional variations of salty-tolerance related genes, the statistical analyses showed that spatial distance and environmental factors substantially influenced Streptomyces distribution in saline environments: the former had stronger influence at large spatial scales (> 700 km), whereas the latter was influential at large (> 700 km) and small spatial scales (< 700 km). Plus, the quantitative analyses of salty-tolerence related genes (ectA-D) indicated that Streptomyces strains from salt lakes have higher expression of ectA-D genes and could accumulate larger quantities of ectoine and hydroxyectoine than strains from salt mines, which could help them resist to salinity in the hypersaline environments.	2016	6	10.1038/srep32718	YES	Dave	y
Grossmann L; Jensen M; Heider D; Jost S; Glucksman E; Hartikainen H; Mahamdallie SS; Gardner M; Hoffmann D; Bass D; Boenigk J	Protistan community analysis: key findings of a large-scale molecular sampling	ISME JOURNAL	Protists are perhaps the most lineage-rich of microbial lifeforms, but remain largely unknown. High-throughput sequencing technologies provide opportunities to screen whole habitats in depth and enable detailed comparisons of different habitats to measure, compare and map protistan diversity. Such comparisons are often limited by low sample numbers within single studies and a lack of standardisation between studies. Here, we analysed 232 samples from 10 sampling campaigns using a standardised PCR protocol and bioinformatics pipeline. We show that protistan community patterns are highly consistent within habitat types and geographic regions, provided that sample processing is standardised. Community profiles are only weakly affected by fluctuations of the abundances of the most abundant taxa and, therefore, provide a sound basis for habitat comparison beyond random short-term fluctuations in the community composition. Further, we provide evidence that distribution patterns are not solely resulting from random processes. Distinct habitat types and distinct taxonomic groups are dominated by taxa with distinct distribution patterns that reflect their ecology with respect to dispersal and habitat colonisation. However, there is no systematic shift of the distribution pattern with taxon abundance.	2016	10	10.1038/ismej.2016.10	MAYBE	Dave	y
Ortmann AC; Santos TTL	Spatial and temporal patterns in the Pelagibacteraceae across an estuarine gradient	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Marine bacterial communities show strong spatial and seasonal patterns, often characterized by changes at high taxonomic levels. The Pelagibacteraceae are common members of bacterial communities, with well-documented biogeography at the subclade level. To identify patterns within the subclades, the abundance and diversity of Pelagibacteraceae were analyzed over a two-year period at four stations across an estuarine gradient. Pelagibacteraceae was the most abundant bacterial family, averaging 27% of the community, but varying from 1% to 57% in any one sample. Highest abundances were detected in autumn and winter. Pelagibacteraceae richness was lowest at the most inshore site, and highest in autumn and winter at all sites. Shannon diversity decreased in winter, when a few OTUs dominated the community. Dissolved oxygen, dissolved silicate and prokaryote abundance explained most of the variability in the Pelagibacteraceae communities, with salinity differentiating low salinity communities. The 10 most abundant OTUs included OTUs that varied across sites, with little seasonality as well as those with small site effects, but strong seasonal patterns indicating differences in the niches of individual OTUs. While salinity was important in structuring low salinity communities, higher salinity communities appear to be responding to additional environmental parameters including oxygen, nutrients and other organisms.Closely related Pelagibacteraceae OTUs vary spatially and temporally across an estuary due to differences in salinity as well as oxygen, nutrients and the abundance of other organisms.Closely related Pelagibacteraceae OTUs vary spatially and temporally across an estuary due to differences in salinity as well as oxygen, nutrients and the abundance of other organisms.	2016	92	10.1093/femsec/fiw133	MAYBE	Dave	n
Huang R; Zhao DY; Zeng J; Shen F; Cao XY; Jiang CL; Huang F; Feng JW; Yu ZB; Wu QLL	pH affects bacterial community composition in soils across the Huashan Watershed, China	CANADIAN JOURNAL OF MICROBIOLOGY	To investigate soil bacterial richness and diversity and to determine the correlations between bacterial communities and soil properties, 8 soil samples were collected from the Huashan watershed in Anhui, China. Subsequently, 454 high-throughput pyrosequencing and bioinformatics analyses were performed to examine the soil bacterial community compositions. The operational taxonomic unit richness of the bacterial community ranged from 3664 to 5899, and the diversity indices, including Chao1, Shannon-Wiener, and Faiths phylogenetic diversity ranged from 7751 to 15 204, 7.386 to 8.327, and 415.77 to 679.11, respectively. The 2 most dominant phyla in the soil samples were Actinobacteria and Proteobacteria. The richness and diversity of the bacterial community were positively correlated with soil pH. The Mantel test revealed that the soil pH was the dominant factor influencing the bacterial community. The positive modular structure of co-occurrence patterns at the genus level was discovered by network analysis. The results obtained in this study provide useful information that enhances our understanding of the effects of soil properties on the bacterial communities.	2016	62	10.1139/cjm-2015-0783	YES	Dave	n
Vannette RL; Leopold DR; Fukami T	Forest area and connectivity influence root-associated fungal communities in a fragmented landscape	ECOLOGY	Habitat fragmentation is well known to affect plant and animal diversity as a result of reduced habitat area and connectivity, but its effects on microorganisms are poorly understood. Using high-throughput sequencing of two regions of the rRNA gene, we studied the effects of forest area and connectivity on the diversity and composition of fungi associated with the roots of the dominant tree, Metrosideros polymorpha, in a lava-fragmented landscape on the Island of Hawaii. We found that local fungal diversity increased with forest area, whereas fungal species composition was correlated with fragment connectivity. Fragment size and connectivity were significant predictors even when we included environmental covariates, which were also associated with fungal diversity and composition. Fungal species composition was more similar among highly connected fragments than among poorly connected ones. We also identified individual taxa that varied in abundance with connectivity. Taken together, our results show that habitat fragmentation can alter microbial diversity and composition via differential response among fungal phyla and individual taxa to habitat connectivity.	2016	97	10.1002/ecy.1472	YES	Dave	
Lima MS; Marques DD; They NH; McMahon KD; Rodrigues LR; Cardoso LD; Crossetti LO	Contrasting factors drive within-lake bacterial community composition and functional traits in a large shallow subtropical lake	HYDROBIOLOGIA	Lakes are considered as islands for assessing microbial biogeography, but bacterial community composition (BCC) and function may vary significantly within lakes, with the roles of scale and connectivity still unclear. This study investigated the spatial and temporal heterogeneity of the BCC (automated ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis) and functional traits (FT, carbon-source utilization), and the contribution of: (i) environmental variables, (ii) phytoplankton, (iii) season, and (iv) space, through variance partitioning in the large and well-mixed Lake Mangueira. The BCC and FT differed in time and space, with BCC being explained by environmental variables and phytoplankton, whereas FT was explained only by space. The smallest scale of variability detected by the BCC and FT (similar to 49 km) was larger than scales found in the other studies, suggesting an effect of lake size (fetch and connectivity). Our results indicate that barriers to bacterial dispersal due to long distances are overcome by high connectivity, reinforcing the role of species sorting for BCC. FT were probably driven by gene dispersal and/or the effects of local conditions on migrant bacterial taxa and resuspended bacteria. Our results highlight the role of within-lake heterogeneity for ecosystem functioning and the implications for the appropriate scale to use in sampling bacterial communities.	2016	778	10.1007/s10750-015-2610-9	YES	Dave	
Ma JC; Ibekwe AM; Yang CH; Crowley DE	Bacterial diversity and composition in major fresh produce growing soils affected by physiochemical properties and geographic locations	SCIENCE OF THE TOTAL ENVIRONMENT	Microbial diversity of agricultural soils has been well documented, but information on leafy green producing soils is limited. In this study, we investigated microbial diversity and community structures in 32 (16 organic, 16 conventionally managed soils) from California (CA) and Arizona (AZ) using pyrosequencing, and identified factors affecting bacterial composition. Results of detrended correspondence analysis (DCA) and dissimilarity analysis showed that bacterial community structures of conventionally managed soils were similar to that of organically managed soils; while the bacterial community structures in soils from Salinas, California were different (P < 0.05) from those in soils from Yuma, Arizona and Imperial Valley, California. Canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) and artificial neural network (ANN) analysis of bacterial community structures and soil variables showed that electrical conductivity (EC), clay content, water-holding capacity (WHC), pH, total nitrogen (TN), and organic carbon (OC) significantly (P < 0.05) correlated with microbial communities. CCA based variation partitioning analysis (VPA) showed that soil physical properties (clay, EC, and WHC), soil chemical variables (pH, TN, and OC) and sampling location explained 16.3%, 12.5%, and 50.9%, respectively, of total variations in bacterial community structure, leaving 13% of the total variation unexplained. Our current study showed that bacterial community composition and diversity in major fresh produce growing soils from California and Arizona is a function of soil physiochemical characteristics and geographic distances of sampling sites. Published by Elsevier B.V.	2016	563	10.1016/j.scitotenv.2016.04.122	YES	Dave	
Chen P; Zhang LM; Guo XX; Dai X; Liu L; Xi LJ; Wang J; Song L; Wang YZ; Zhu YX; Huang L; Huang Y	Diversity, Biogeography, and Biodegradation Potential of Actinobacteria in the Deep-Sea Sediments along the Southwest Indian Ridge	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	The phylum Actinobacteria has been reported to be common or even abundant in deep marine sediments, however, knowledge about the diversity, distribution, and function of actinobacteria is limited. In this study, actinobacterial diversity in the deep sea along the Southwest Indian Ridge (SWIR) was investigated using both 16S rRNA gene pyrosequencing and culture-based methods. The samples were collected at depths of 1662-4000 m below water surface. Actinobacterial sequences represented 1.2-9.1% of all microbial 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequences in each sample. A total of 5 actinobacterial classes, 17 orders, 28 families, and 52 genera were detected by pyrosequencing, dominated by the classes Acidimicrobiia and Actinobacteria. Differences in actinobacterial community compositions were found among the samples. The community structure showed significant correlations to geochemical factors, notably pH, calcium, total organic carbon, total phosphorus, and total nitrogen, rather than to spatial distance at the scale of the investigation. In addition, 176 strains of the Actinobacteria class, belonging to 9 known orders, 18 families, and 29 genera, were isolated. Among these cultivated taxa, 8 orders, 13 families, and 15 genera were also recovered by pyrosequencing. At a 97% 16S rRNA gene sequence similarity, the pyrosequencing data encompassed 77.3% of the isolates but the isolates represented only 10.3% of the actinobacterial reads. Phylogenetic analysis of all the representative actinobacterial sequences and isolates indicated that at least four new orders within the phylum Actinobacteria were detected by pyrosequencing. More than half of the isolates spanning 23 genera and all samples demonstrated activity in the degradation of refractory organics, including polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons and polysaccharides, suggesting their potential ecological functions and biotechnological applications for carbon recycling.	2016	7	10.3389/fmicb.2016.01340	YES	Dave	
Glynou K; Ali T; Buch AK; Kia SH; Ploch S; Xia XJ; Celik A; Thines M; Macia-Vicente JG	The local environment determines the assembly of root endophytic fungi at a continental scale	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Root endophytic fungi are found in a great variety of plants and ecosystems, but the ecological drivers of their biogeographic distribution are poorly understood. Here, we investigate the occurrence of root endophytes in the non-mycorrhizal plant genus Microthlaspi, and the effect of environmental factors and geographic distance in structuring their communities at a continental scale. We sampled 52 plant populations across the northern Mediterranean and central Europe and used a cultivation approach to study their endophytic communities. Cultivation of roots yielded 2601 isolates, which were grouped into 296 operational taxonomic units (OTUs) by internal transcribed spacer sequencing of 1998 representative colonies. Climatic and spatial factors were the best descriptors of the structure of endophytic communities, outweighing soil characteristics, host genotype and geographical distance. OTU richness was negatively affected by precipitation, and the composition of communities followed latitudinal gradients of precipitation and temperature. Only six widespread OTUs belonging to the orders Pleosporales, Hypocreales and Helotiales represented about 50% of all isolates. Assessments of their individual distribution revealed particular ecological preferences or a cosmopolitan occurrence. Our findings support a strong influence of the local environment in determining root endophytic communities, and show a different niche occupancy by individual endophytes.	2016	18	10.1111/1462-2920.13112	MAYBE	Dave	
Salerno JL; Bowen BW; Rappe MS	Biogeography of planktonic and coral-associated microorganisms across the Hawaiian Archipelago	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Factors driving the distribution of marine microorganisms are widely debated and poorly understood. Recent studies show that free-living marine microbes exhibit geographical patterns indicative of limited dispersal. In contrast, host-associated microbes face a different set of dispersal challenges, and hosts may function as habitat islands for resident microbial populations. Here, we examine the biogeographical distributions of planktonic and adjacent coral-associated bacterial communities across the Hawaiian Archipelago, Johnston Atoll (similar to 1400 km southwest of Hawaii) and American Samoa in the Pacific Ocean and investigate the potential underlying processes driving observed patterns. Statistical analyses of bacterial community structure, determined using a small-subunit ribosomal RNA gene-based approach, showed that bacterioplankton and coral-associated bacterial communities were distinct, and correlated with geographical distance between sites. In addition, biogeographical patterns of bacterial associates paralleled those of their host coral Porites lobata, highlighting the specificity of these associations and the impact that host dispersal may have on bacterial biogeography. Planktonic and coral-associated bacterial communities from distant Johnston Atoll were shown to be connected with communities from the center of the Hawaiian Archipelago, a pattern previously observed in fish and invertebrates. No significant correlations were detected with habitat type, temperature or depth. However, non-distance-based geographical groupings were detected, indicating that, in addition to dispersal, unidentified environmental factors also affected the distributions of bacterial communities investigated here.The biogeographical distribution of bacterial communities associated with Porites lobata corals in Hawaii is influenced by geographical distance and environmental factors and parallels the host distribution.The biogeographical distribution of bacterial communities associated with Porites lobata corals in Hawaii is influenced by geographical distance and environmental factors and parallels the host distribution.	2016	92	10.1093/femsec/fiw109	YES	Dave	
Gokul JK; Hodson AJ; Saetnan ER; Irvine-Fynn TDL; Westall PJ; Detheridge AP; Takeuchi N; Bussell J; Mur LAJ; Edwards A	Taxon interactions control the distributions of cryoconite bacteria colonizing a High Arctic ice cap	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	Microbial colonization of glacial ice surfaces incurs feedbacks which affect the melting rate of the ice surface. Ecosystems formed as microbe-mineral aggregates termed cryoconite locally reduce ice surface albedo and represent foci of biodiversity and biogeochemical cycling. Consequently, greater understanding the ecological processes in the formation of functional cryoconite ecosystems upon glacier surfaces is sought. Here, we present the first bacterial biogeography of an ice cap, evaluating the respective roles of dispersal, environmental and biotic filtration occurring at local scales in the assembly of cryoconite microbiota. 16S rRNA gene amplicon semiconductor sequencing of cryoconite colonizing a Svalbard ice cap coupled with digital elevation modelling of physical parameters reveals the bacterial community is dominated by a ubiquitous core of generalist taxa, with evidence for a moderate pairwise distance-decay relationship. While geographic position and melt season duration are prominent among environmental predictors of community structure, the core population of taxa appears highly influential in structuring the bacterial community. Taxon co-occurrence network analysis reveals a highly modular community structured by positive interactions with bottleneck taxa, predominantly Actinobacteria affiliated to isolates from soil humus. In contrast, the filamentous cyanobacterial taxon (assigned to Leptolyngbya/Phormidesmis pristleyi) which dominates the community and binds together granular cryoconite are poorly connected to other taxa. While our study targeted one ice cap, the prominent role of generalist core taxa with close environmental relatives across the global cryosphere indicate discrete roles for cosmopolitan Actinobacteria and Cyanobacteria as respective keystone taxa and ecosystem engineers of cryoconite ecosystems colonizing ice caps.	2016	25	10.1111/mec.13715	YES	Dave	
Pavloudi C; Oulas A; Vasileiadou K; Sarropoulou E; Kotoulas G; Arvanitidis C	Salinity is the major factor influencing the sediment bacterial communities in a Mediterranean lagoonal complex (Amvrakikos Gulf, Ionian Sea)	MARINE GENOMICS	Lagoons are naturally-enriched habitats, with unstable environmental conditions caused by their confinement, shallow depth and state of saprobity. The frequent fluctuations of the abiotic variables cause severe changes in the abundance and distribution of biota. This relationship has been studied extensively for the macrofaunal communities, but not sufficiently so for the bacterial ones. The aim of the present study was to explore the biodiversity patterns of bacterial assemblages and to examine whether these patterns are associated with biogeographic and environmental factors. For this purpose, sediment samples were collected from five lagoons located in the Amvrakikos Gulf (Ionian Sea, Western Greece). DNA was extracted from the sediment and was further processed through 16S rRNA pyrosequencing. The results of this exploratory study imply that salinity is the environmental factor best correlated with the bacterial community pattern, which has also been suggested in similar studies but for macrofaunal community patterns. In addition, the bacterial community of the brackish lagoons is differentiated from that of the brackish marine lagoons. The findings of this study indicate that the studied lagoons have distinct bacterial communities. (C) 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2016	28	10.1016/j.margen.2016.01.005	MAYBE	Dave	
Delgado-Baquerizo M; Maestre FT; Reich PB; Trivedi P; Osanai Y; Liu YR; Hamonts K; Jeffries TC; Singh BK	Carbon content and climate variability drive global soil bacterial diversity patterns	ECOLOGICAL MONOGRAPHS	Despite the vital role of microorganisms for ecosystem functioning and human welfare, our understanding of their global diversity and biogeographical patterns lags significantly behind that of plants and animals. We conducted a meta-analysis including similar to 600 soil samples from all continents to evaluate the biogeographical patterns and drivers of bacterial diversity in terrestrial ecosystems at the global scale. Similar to what has been found with plants and animals, the diversity of soil bacteria in the Southern Hemisphere decreased from the equator to Antarctica. However, soil bacteria showed similar levels of diversity across the Northern Hemisphere. The composition of bacterial communities followed dissimilar patterns between hemispheres, as the Southern and Northern Hemispheres were dominated by Actinobacteria and Acidobacteria, respectively. However, Proteobacteria was co-dominant in both hemispheres. Moreover, we found a decrease in soil bacterial diversity with altitude. Climatic features (e.g., high diurnal temperature range and low temperature) were correlated with the lower diversity found at high elevations, but geographical gradients in soil total carbon and species turnover were important drivers of the observed latitudinal patterns. We thus found both parallels and differences in the biogeographical patterns of aboveground vs. soil bacterial diversity. Our findings support previous studies that highlighted soil pH, spatial influence, and organic matter as important drivers of bacterial diversity and composition. Furthermore, our results provide a novel integrative view of how climate and soil factors influence soil bacterial diversity at the global scale, which is critical to improve ecosystem and earth system simulation models and for formulating sustainable ecosystem management and conservation policies.	2016	86	10.1002/ecm.1216/suppinfo	YES	Dave	
Wang XH; Wen XH; Deng Y; Xia Y; Yang YF; Zhou JZ	Distance-Decay Relationship for Biological Wastewater Treatment Plants	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Patterns in the spatial distribution of organisms provide important information about mechanisms underlying biodiversity and the complexity of ecosystems. One of the most well-documented spatial patterns is the distance-decay relationship, which is a universal biogeographic pattern observed repeatedly for plant and animal communities, particularly for microorganisms in natural ecosystems such as soil, ocean, and salt marsh sediment. However, it is uncertain whether the microorganisms exhibit a distance-decay pattern in engineered ecosystems. Therefore, we measured the distance-decay relationship across various microbial functional and phylogenetic groups in 26 biological wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs) in China using a functional gene array (GeoChip 4.2). We found that microbial communities of activated sludge in WWTPs exhibited a significant but very weak distance-decay relationship. The taxon-area z values for different functional and phylogenetic groups were <0.0065, which is about 1 to 2 orders of magnitude lower than those observed in microbial communities elsewhere. Variation-partitioning analysis (VPA) showed that the relationships were driven by both environmental heterogeneity and geographic distance. Collectively, these results provided new insights into the spatial scaling of microbial communities in engineering ecosystems and highlighted the importance of environmental heterogeneity and geographic distance in shaping biogeographic patterns. IMPORTANCE Determining the distance-decay relationship of microbial biodiversity is important but challenging in microbial ecology. All studies to date are based on natural environments; thus, it remains unclear whether there is such a relationship in an engineered ecosystem. The present study shows that there is a very weak distance-decay relationship in an engineered ecosystem (WWTPs) at the regional-to-continental scale. This study makes fundamental contributions to a mechanistic, predictive understanding of microbial biogeography.	2016	82	10.1128/AEM.01071-16	YES	Dave	
Shen CC; Shi Y; Ni YY; Deng Y; Van Nostrand JD; He ZL; Zhou JZ; Chu HY	Dramatic Increases of Soil Microbial Functional Gene Diversity at the Treeline Ecotone of Changbai Mountain	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	The elevational and latitudinal diversity patterns of microbial taxa have attracted great attention in the past decade. Recently, the distribution of functional attributes has been in the spotlight. Here, we report a study profiling soil microbial communities along an elevation gradient (500-2200 m) on Changbai Mountain. Using a comprehensive functional gene microarray (GeoChip 5.0), we found that microbial functional gene richness exhibited a dramatic increase at the treeline ecotone, but the bacterial taxonomic and phylogenetic diversity based on 16S rRNA gene sequencing did not exhibit such a similar trend. However, the beta-diversity (compositional dissimilarity among sites) pattern for both bacterial taxa and functional genes was similar, showing significant elevational distance-decay patterns which presented increased dissimilarity with elevation. The bacterial taxonomic diversity/structure was strongly influenced by soil pH, while the functional gene diversity/structure was significantly correlated with soil dissolved organic carbon (DOC). This finding highlights that soil DOC may be a good predictor in determining the elevational distribution of microbial functional genes. The finding of significant shifts in functional gene diversity at the treeline ecotone could also provide valuable information for predicting the responses of microbial functions to climate change.	2016	7	10.3389/fmicb.2016.01184	MAYBE	Dave	
Zhou HX; Dang HY; Klotz MG	Environmental Conditions Outweigh Geographical Contiguity in Determining the Similarity of nifH-Harboring Microbial Communities in Sediments of Two Disconnected Marginal Seas	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Ecological evidence suggests that heterotrophic diazotrophs fueled by organic carbon respiration in sediments play an important role in marine nitrogen fixation. However, fundamental knowledge about the identities, abundance, diversity, biogeography, and controlling environmental factors of nitrogen fixing communities in open ocean sediments is still elusive. Surprisingly, little is known also about nitrogen-fixing communities in sediments of the more research-accessible marginal seas. Here we report on an investigation of the environmental geochemistry and putative diazotrophic microbiota in the sediments of Bohai Sea, an eutrophic marginal sea of the western Pacific Ocean. Diverse and abundant nifH gene sequences were identified and sulfate-reducing bacteria (SRB) were found to be the dominant putative nitrogen-fixing microbes. Community statistical analyses suggested bottom water temperature, bottom water chlorophyll a content (or the covarying turbidity) and sediment porewater Eh (or the covarying pH) as the most significant environmental factors controlling the structure and spatial distribution of the putative diazotrophic communities, while sediment Hg content, sulfide content, and porewater SiO32--Si content were identified as the key environmental factors correlated positively with the nifH gene abundance in Bohai Sea sediments. Comparative analyses between the Bohai Sea and the northern South China Sea (nSCS) identified a significant composition difference of the putative diazotrophic communities in sediments between the shallow water (estuarine and nearshore) and deep-water (offshore and deep-sea) environments, and sediment porewater dissolved oxygen content, water depth and in situ temperature as the key environmental factors tentatively controlling the species composition, community structure, and spatial distribution of the marginal sea sediment nifH-harboring microbiota. This confirms the ecophysiological specialization and niche differentiation between the shallow-water and deep-water sediment diazotrophic communities and suggests that the in situ physical and geochemical conditions play a more important role than geographical contiguity in determining the community similarity of the diazotrophic microbiota in marginal sea sediments.	2016	7	10.3389/fmicb.2016.01111	YES	Dave	
Xia ZW; Bai E; Wang QK; Gao D; Zhou JD; Jiang P; Wu JB	Biogeographic Distribution Patterns of Bacteria in Typical Chinese Forest Soils	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Microbes are widely distributed in soils and play a very important role in nutrient cycling and ecosystem services. To understand the biogeographic distribution of forest soil bacteria, we collected 115 soil samples in typical forest ecosystems across eastern China to investigate their bacterial community compositions using Illumina MiSeq high throughput sequencing based on 16S rRNA. We obtained 4,667,656 sequences totally and more than 70% of these sequences were classified into five dominant groups, i.e., Actinobactena, Acidobacteria, Alphaproteobacteria, Verrucomicrobia, and Planctomycetes (relative abundance >5%). The bacterial diversity showed a parabola shape along latitude and the maximum diversity appeared at latitudes between 33.50 degrees N and 40 degrees N, an area characterized by warm-temperate zones and moderate temperature, neutral soil pH and high substrate availability (soil C and N) from dominant deciduous broad-leaved forests. Pairwise dissimilarity matrix in bacterial community composition showed that bacterial community structure had regional similarity and the latitude of 30 degrees N could be used as the dividing line between southern and northern forest soils. Soil properties and climate conditions (MAT and MAP) greatly accounted for the differences in the soil bacterial structure. Among all soil parameters determined, soil pH predominantly affected the diversity and composition of the bacterial community, and soil pH = 5 probably could be used as a threshold below which soil bacterial diversity might decline and soil bacterial community structure might change significantly. Moreover, soil exchangeable cations, especially Ca2+ (ECa2+) and some other soil variables were also closely related to bacterial community structure. The selected environmental variables (21.11%) explained more of the bacterial community variation than geographic distance (15.88%), indicating that the edaphic properties and environmental factors played a more important role than geographic dispersal limitation in determining the bacterial community structure in Chinese forest soils.	2016	7	10.3389/fmicb.2016.01106	MAYBE	Dave	
Zhou JZ; Deng Y; Shen LN; Wen CQ; Yan QY; Ning DL; Qin YJ; Xue K; Wu LY; He ZL; Voordeckers JW; Van Nostrand JD; Buzzard V; Michaletz ST; Enquist BJ; Weiser MD; Kaspari M; Waide R; Yang YF; Brown JH	Temperature mediates continental-scale diversity of microbes in forest soils	NATURE COMMUNICATIONS	Climate warming is increasingly leading to marked changes in plant and animal biodiversity, but it remains unclear how temperatures affect microbial biodiversity, particularly in terrestrial soils. Here we show that, in accordance with metabolic theory of ecology, taxonomic and phylogenetic diversity of soil bacteria, fungi and nitrogen fixers are all better predicted by variation in environmental temperature than pH. However, the rates of diversity turnover across the global temperature gradients are substantially lower than those recorded for trees and animals, suggesting that the diversity of plant, animal and soil microbial communities show differential responses to climate change. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study demonstrating that the diversity of different microbial groups has significantly lower rates of turnover across temperature gradients than other major taxa, which has important implications for assessing the effects of human-caused changes in climate, land use and other factors.	2016	7	10.1038/ncomms12083	YES	Dave	
Stumpf RM; Gomez A; Amato KR; Yeoman CJ; Polk JD; Wilson BA; Nelson KE; White BA; Leigh SR	Microbiomes, metagenomics, and primate conservation: New strategies, tools, and applications	BIOLOGICAL CONSERVATION	Conservation strategies require multifaceted approaches to monitor and protect primate populations, many of which are rapidly declining around the world. We propose that microbial ecology and next-generation microbiome analyses offer valuable perspectives and tools for investigating and monitoring primate health and improving conservation efforts. The microbial communities inhabiting primates and other taxa profoundly affect host health, nutrition, physiology, and immune systems, through relationships that range from commensal and mutualistic to pathogenic. Recent advances in DNA sequencing now make it feasible and-economically viable to identify microbiomes among and within hosts. Herein, we highlight several examples in which microbial analyses of primates can aid conservation approaches that are broadly applicable across other taxa. First, we highlight evidence for clear spatial variation (e.g. biogeographic niche specificity, both within the anatomical regions of the host body, as well as in the geographic location of the host) and temporal (e.g. seasonal, ontogenetic) patterns in microbial distribution. We emphasize that microbial communities are sensitive to alterations in the external environment and that microbial diversity correlates with habitat quality, imposing direct health consequences. Incorporating microbial host and biogeographic variation holds great potential for forest corridor assessments and for reintroduction efforts. Finally, microbial pathogens transmitted between humans and wild primate populations carry both direct and indirect conservation implications. Principally, we argue that phylogenetic analyses of infectious pathogens (e.g., Ebola, dengue, Borellia, and Treponema) can aid our understanding of modes of disease transmission and aid conservation disease abatement efforts. The application of microbial analyses to conservation is currently in its infancy but holds enormous potential. To date, no conservation policy or legislation includes microbiome assessments. Integrating new understanding of the patterns of microbial diversity and early signs of impending microbial disruption offer valuable tools for informing conservation strategies and monitoring and promoting primate (including human) health. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2016	199	10.1016/j.biocon.2016.03.035	MAYBE	Dave	
Comte J; Monier A; Crevecoeur S; Lovejoy C; Vincent WF	Microbial biogeography of permafrost thaw ponds across the changing northern landscape	ECOGRAPHY	Microbial diversity varies at multiple spatial scales, but little is known about how climate change may influence this variation. Here we assessed the free-living bacterioplankton composition of thaw ponds over a north-south gradient of permafrost degradation in the eastern Canadian subarctic. Three nested spatial scales were compared: 1) among ponds within individual valleys 2) between two valleys within each landscape type, and 3) between landscape types (southern sporadic versus northern discontinuous permafrost). As a reference point, we sampled rock-basin lakes whose formation was not related to permafrost thawing. -diversity was low at the smallest scale despite marked differences in limnological properties among neighboring ponds. -diversity was high among valleys, associated with greater environmental heterogeneity. The largest differences were between landscape types and appeared to reflect the concomitant effects of environmental filtering and dispersal limitation. Raup-Crick -diversity indicated that community assembly was driven by both stochastic (random extinction, dispersal, ecological drift) and deterministic (environmental filtering) processes. Communities sampled in the most degraded valley appeared primarily assembled through stochastic processes, while environmental filtering played a greater role at the other valleys. These results imply that climate warming and ongoing permafrost degradation will influence microbial community assembly, which in turn is likely to affect the functioning of thaw pond ecosystems.	2016	39	10.1111/ecog.01667	YES	Dave	
Lankau RA; Keymer DP	Ectomycorrhizal fungal richness declines towards the host species range edge	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	Plant range boundaries are generally considered to reflect abiotic conditions; however, a rise in negative or decline in positive species interactions at range margins may contribute to these stable boundaries. While evidence suggests that pollinator mutualisms may decline near range boundaries, little is known about other important plant mutualisms, including microbial root symbionts. Here, we used molecular methods to characterize root-associated fungal communities in populations of two related temperate tree species from across the species range in the eastern United States. We found that ectomycorrhizal fungal richness on plant roots declined with distance from the centre of the host species range. These patterns were not evident in nonmycorrhizal fungal communities on roots nor in fungal communities in bulk soil. Climatic and soil chemical variables could not explain these biogeographic patterns, although these abiotic gradients affected other components of the bulk soil and rhizosphere fungal community. Depauperate ectomycorrhizal fungal communities may represent an underappreciated challenge to marginal tree populations, especially as rapid climate change pushes these populations outside their current climate niche.	2016	25	10.1111/mec.13628	MAYBE	Dave	
Nino-Garcia JP; Ruiz-Gonzalez C; del Giorgio PA	Interactions between hydrology and water chemistry shape bacterioplankton biogeography across boreal freshwater networks	ISME JOURNAL	Disentangling the mechanisms shaping bacterioplankton communities across freshwater ecosystems requires considering a hydrologic dimension that can influence both dispersal and local sorting, but how the environment and hydrology interact to shape the biogeography of freshwater bacterioplankton over large spatial scales remains unexplored. Using Illumina sequencing of the 16S ribosomal RNA gene, we investigate the large-scale spatial patterns of bacterioplankton across 386 freshwater systems from seven distinct regions in boreal Quebec. We show that both hydrology and local water chemistry (mostly pH) interact to shape a sequential structuring of communities from highly diverse assemblages in headwater streams toward larger rivers and lakes dominated by fewer taxa. Increases in water residence time along the hydrologic continuum were accompanied by major losses of bacterial richness and by an increased differentiation of communities driven by local conditions (pH and other related variables). This suggests that hydrology and network position modulate the relative role of environmental sorting and mass effects on community assembly by determining both the time frame for bacterial growth and the composition of the immigrant pool. The apparent low dispersal limitation (that is, the lack of influence of geographic distance on the spatial patterns observed at the taxonomic resolution used) suggests that these boreal bacterioplankton communities derive from a shared bacterial pool that enters the networks through the smallest streams, largely dominated by mass effects, and that is increasingly subjected to local sorting of species during transit along the hydrologic continuum.	2016	10	10.1038/ismej.2015.226	YES	Dave	
Santoferrara LF; Grattepanche JD; Katz LA; McManus GB	Patterns and processes in microbial biogeography: do molecules and morphologies give the same answers?	ISME JOURNAL	Our knowledge on microbial biogeography depends on the way we define and study diversity. In contrast to most microbes, some protist lineages have conspicuous structures that allow comparisons of diversity concepts and measures-those based on molecules and those based on morphology. We analyzed a group of shell-bearing planktonic ciliates, the tintinnids, in a coast-to-ocean gradient using high-throughput sequencing and microscopy. First, we compared molecular operational taxonomic units (OTUs) and morphospecies in terms of assemblage composition, distribution and relationships with the environment. OTUs revealed potentially novel and rare taxa, while morphospecies showed clearer correlations with environmental factors, and both approaches coincided in supporting a coastal versus oceanic pattern. Second, we explored which processes influence assembly across the environmental gradient examined. Assemblage fluctuations were associated with significant distance-decay and changes in morphospecies size and prey proxies, thus suggesting niche partitioning as a key structuring mechanism. Our conclusion is that molecules and morphologies generally agreed, but they provided complementary data, the first revealing hidden diversity, and the latter making better connections between distribution patterns and ecological processes. This highlights the importance of linking genotypes and phenotypes (using multidisciplinary analyses and/or reliable databases of barcoded species), to understand the diversity, biogeography and ecological roles of microbes.	2016	10	10.1038/ismej.2015.224	YES	Dave	
Jiao S; Liu ZS; Lin YB; Yang J; Chen WM; Wei GH	Bacterial communities in oil contaminated soils: Biogeography and co-occurrence patterns	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	To improve the knowledge about the biogeographic patterns of bacteria in soils contaminated with crude oil, we studied the effects of local geochemical properties and geographic distance on bacterial community structure in oil contaminated soil in five oil refineries (46-360 km apart). The microbial structure was significantly affected by soil environmental factors such as pH, total petroleum hydrocarbons (TPH), total nitrogen, and cadmium level. Microbial alpha-diversity was positively correlated with pH but negatively correlated with TPH. Among sampling sites, the community dissimilarities increased with spatial distance. Variation of bacterial community was mostly attributed to simultaneous effects of spatial distance and environmental factors, and purely spatial distance contributed more to the variation. Microbial generalist OTUs were broadly distributed and dominant in contaminated soils. Their populations were in low proportion (15.75%), but they had high relative abundance (65.05%), and some were associated with TPH-degradation. Network analysis indicated that microbial communities had nonrandom co-occurrence patterns. Keystone taxa were Rubrivivax, Nitrospira, Methylotenera, Methyloversatilis and Acidaminobacter. Microbial taxa from the same module had strong ecological linkages and were involved in biological electron-transfer, C and N-cycles, and organic contaminant degradation. Our results indicate that the same microbial groups with TPH-degradation ability can be assembled from indigenous microorganisms in separate regions through long term exposure to contamination. (C) 2016 Published by Elsevier Ltd.	2016	98	10.1016/j.soilbio.2016.04.005	YES	Dave	
Zhang YG; Cong J; Lu H; Deng Y; Liu X; Zhou JZ; Li DQ	Soil bacterial endemism and potential functional redundancy in natural broadleaf forest along a latitudinal gradient	SCIENTIFIC REPORTS	Microorganisms play key roles in ecosystem processes and biogeochemical cycling, however, the relationship between soil microbial taxa diversity and their function in natural ecosystems is largely unknown. To determine how soil bacteria community and function are linked from the local to regional scale, we studied soil bacteria community composition, potential function and environmental conditions in natural and mature broadleaf forests along a latitudinal gradient in China, using the Illumina 16S rRNA sequencing and GeoChip technologies. The results showed strong biogeographic endemism pattern in soil bacteria were existed, and the spatial distance and climatic variables were the key controlling factors for this pattern. Therefore, dispersal limitation and environmental selection may represent two key processes in generating and maintaining the soil bacterial biogeographic pattern. By contrast, the soil bacterial potential function is highly convergent along the latitudinal gradient and there were highly differing bacterial community compositions, and the soil chemistry may include the main factors active in shaping the soil bacterial potential function. Therefore, the soil bacterial potential function may be affected by local gradients in resource availability, and predicting soil bacterial potential function requires knowledge of abiotic and biotic environmental factors.	2016	6	10.1038/srep28819	YES	Dave	
Laforest-Lapointe I; Messier C; Kembel SW	Host species identity, site and time drive temperate tree phyllosphere bacterial community structure	MICROBIOME	Background: The increasing awareness of the role of phyllosphere microbial communities in plant health calls for a greater understanding of their structure and dynamics in natural ecosystems. Since most knowledge of tree phyllosphere bacterial communities has been gathered in tropical forests, our goal was to characterize the community structure and assembly dynamics of phyllosphere epiphytic bacterial communities in temperate forests in Quebec, Canada. We targeted five dominant tree species: Acer saccharum, Acer rubrum, Betula papyrifera, Abies balsamea, and Picea glauca. We collected 180 samples of phyllosphere communities on these species at four natural forest sites, three times during the growing season. Results: Host functional traits (i.e., wood density, leaf nitrogen content) and climate variables (summer mean temperature and precipitation) were strongly correlated with community structure. We highlight three key findings: (1) temperate tree species share a core microbiome; (2) significant evolutionary associations exist between groups of bacteria and host species; and (3) a greater part of the variation in phyllosphere bacterial community assembly is explained by host species identity (27 %) and species-site interaction (14 %), than by site (11 %) or time (1 %). Conclusions: We demonstrated that host species identity is a stronger driver of temperate tree phyllosphere bacterial communities than site or time. Our results suggest avenues for future studies on the influence of host functional traits on phyllosphere community functional biogeography across terrestrial biomes.	2016	4	10.1186/s40168-016-0174-1	MAYBE	Dave	
Lucas J; Wichels A; Gerdts G	Spatiotemporal variation of the bacterioplankton community in the German Bight: from estuarine to offshore regions	HELGOLAND MARINE RESEARCH	Marine microbial biogeography has been studied intensively; however few studies address community variation across temporal and spatial scales simultaneously so far. Here we present a yearlong study investigating the dynamics of the free-living and particle-attached bacterioplankton community across a 100 km transect in the German Bight reaching from the Elbe estuary towards the open North Sea. Community composition was assessed using automated ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis and linked to environmental parameters applying multivariate statistical techniques. Results suggest that the spatial variation of the bacterioplankton community is defined by hydrographic current conditions, which separate the inner German Bight from the open North Sea and lead to pronounced differences in the coastal and offshore bacterioplankton community. However this spatial variation is overwhelmed by a strong temporal variation which is triggered by temperature as the main driving force throughout the whole transect. Variation in the free-living community was predominantly driven by temperature, whereas the particle-attached community exhibited stronger spatial variation patterns.	2016	70	10.1186/s10152-016-0464-9	MAYBE	Dave	
Ferrari BC; Bissett A; Snape I; van Dorst J; Palmer AS; Ji MK; Siciliano SD; Stark JS; Winsley T; Brown MV	Geological connectivity drives microbial community structure and connectivity in polar, terrestrial ecosystems	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Landscape heterogeneity impacts community assembly in animals and plants, but it is not clear if this ecological concept extends to microbes. To examine this question, we chose to investigate polar soil environments from the Antarctic and Arctic, where microbes often form the major component of biomass. We examined soil environments that ranged in connectivity from relatively well-connected slopes to patchy, fragmented landforms that comprised isolated frost boils. We found landscape connectedness to have a significant correlation with microbial community structure and connectivity, as measured by co-occurrence networks. Soils from within fragmented landforms appeared to exhibit less local environmental heterogeneity, harboured more similar communities, but fewer biological associations than connected landforms. This effect was observed at both poles, despite the geographical distances and ecological differences between them. We suggest that microbial communities inhabiting well-connected landscape elements respond consistently to regional-scale gradients in biotic and edaphic factors. Conversely, the repeated freeze thaw cycles that characterize fragmented landscapes create barriers within the landscape and act to homogenize the soil environment within individual frost boils and consequently the microbial communities. We propose that lower microbial connectivity in the fragmented landforms is a function of smaller patch size and continual disturbances following soil mixing.	2016	18	10.1111/1462-2920.13034	MAYBE	Dave	
OBrien SL; Gibbons SM; Owens SM; Hampton-Marcell J; Johnston ER; Jastrow JD; Gilbert JA; Meyer F; Antonopoulos DA	Spatial scale drives patterns in soil bacterial diversity	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Soil microbial communities are essential for ecosystem function, but linking community composition to biogeochemical processes is challenging because of high microbial diversity and large spatial variability of most soil characteristics. We investigated soil bacterial community structure in a switchgrass stand planted on soil with a history of grassland vegetation at high spatial resolution to determine whether biogeographic trends occurred at the centimeter scale. Moreover, we tested whether such heterogeneity, if present, influenced community structure within or among ecosystems. Pronounced heterogeneity was observed at centimeter scales, with abrupt changes in relative abundance of phyla from sample to sample. At the ecosystem scale (> 10 m), however, bacterial community composition and structure were subtly, but significantly, altered by fertilization, with higher alpha diversity in fertilized plots. Moreover, by comparing these data with data from 1772 soils from the Earth Microbiome Project, it was found that 20% diverse globally sourced soil samples, while grassland soils shared approximately 40% of their operational taxonomic units with the current study. By spanning several orders of magnitude, the analysis suggested that extreme patchiness characterized community structure at smaller scales but that coherent patterns emerged at larger length scales.	2016	18	10.1111/1462-2920.13231	YES	Dave	
Zheng YL; Jiang XF; Hou LJ; Liu M; Lin XB; Gao J; Li XF; Yin GY; Yu CD; Wang R	Shifts in the community structure and activity of anaerobic ammonium oxidation bacteria along an estuarine salinity gradient	JOURNAL OF GEOPHYSICAL RESEARCH-BIOGEOSCIENCES	Anaerobic ammonium oxidation (anammox) is a major microbial pathway for nitrogen (N) removal in estuarine and coastal environments. However, understanding of anammox bacterial dynamics and associations with anammox activity remains scarce along estuarine salinity gradient. In this study, the diversity, abundance, and activity of anammox bacteria, and their potential contributions to total N-2 production in the sediments along the salinity gradient (0.1-33.8) of the Yangtze estuarine and coastal zone, were studied using 16S rRNA gene clone library, quantitative polymerase chain reaction assay, and isotope-tracing technique. Phylogenetic analysis showed a significant change in anammox bacterial community structure along the salinity gradient (P<0.01), with the dominant genus shifting from Brocadia in the freshwater region to Scalindua in the open ocean. Anammox bacterial abundance ranged from 3.67x10(5) to 8.22x10(7)copies 16S rRNA geneg(-1) and related significantly with salinity (P<0.05). The anammox activity varied between 0.08 and 6.46nmolNg(-1)h(-1) and related closely with anammox bacterial abundance (P<0.01). Contributions of anammox activity to total N loss were highly variable along the salinity gradient, ranging from 5 to 77% and were significantly negatively correlated with salinity (P<0.01). Sediment organic matter was also recognized as an important factor in controlling the relative role of anammox to total N-2 production in the Yangtze estuarine and coastal zone. Overall, our data demonstrated a biogeographical distribution of anammox bacterial diversity, abundance, and activity along the estuarine salinity gradient and suggested that salinity is a major environmental control on anammox process in the estuarine and coastal ecosystems.	2016	121	10.1002/2015JG003300	MAYBE	Dave	
Tu QC; Deng Y; Yan QY; Shen LN; Lin L; He ZL; Wu LY; Van Nostrand JD; Buzzard V; Michaletz ST; Enquist BJ; Weiser MD; Kaspari M; Waide RB; Brown JH; Zhou JZ	Biogeographic patterns of soil diazotrophic communities across six forests in the North America	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	Soil diazotrophs play important roles in ecosystem functioning by converting atmospheric N-2 into biologically available ammonium. However, the diversity and distribution of soil diazotrophic communities in different forests and whether they follow biogeographic patterns similar to macroorganisms still remain unclear. By sequencing nifH gene amplicons, we surveyed the diversity, structure and biogeographic patterns of soil diazotrophic communities across six North American forests (126 nested samples). Our results showed that each forest harboured markedly different soil diazotrophic communities and that these communities followed traditional biogeographic patterns similar to plant and animal communities, including the taxa-area relationship (TAR) and latitudinal diversity gradient. Significantly higher community diversity and lower microbial spatial turnover rates (i.e. z-values) were found for rainforests (similar to 0.06) than temperate forests (similar to 0.1). The gradient pattern of TARs and community diversity was strongly correlated (r(2) > 0.5) with latitude, annual mean temperature, plant species richness and precipitation, and weakly correlated (r(2) < 0.25) with pH and soil moisture. This study suggests that even microbial subcommunities (e.g. soil diazotrophs) follow general biogeographic patterns (e.g. TAR, latitudinal diversity gradient), and indicates that the metabolic theory of ecology and habitat heterogeneity may be the major underlying ecological mechanisms shaping the biogeographic patterns of soil diazotrophic communities.	2016	25	10.1111/mec.13651	MAYBE	Dave	
Kuang JL; Huang LN; He ZL; Chen LX; Hua ZS; Jia P; Li SJ; Liu J; Li JT; Zhou JZ; Shu WS	Predicting taxonomic and functional structure of microbial communities in acid mine drainage	ISME JOURNAL	Predicting the dynamics of community composition and functional attributes responding to environmental changes is an essential goal in community ecology but remains a major challenge, particularly in microbial ecology. Here, by targeting a model system with low species richness, we explore the spatial distribution of taxonomic and functional structure of 40 acid mine drainage (AMD) microbial communities across Southeast China profiled by 16S ribosomal RNA pyrosequencing and a comprehensive microarray (GeoChip). Similar environmentally dependent patterns of dominant microbial lineages and key functional genes were observed regardless of the large-scale geographical isolation. Functional and phylogenetic beta-diversities were significantly correlated, whereas functional metabolic potentials were strongly influenced by environmental conditions and community taxonomic structure. Using advanced modeling approaches based on artificial neural networks, we successfully predicted the taxonomic and functional dynamics with significantly higher prediction accuracies of metabolic potentials (average Bray-Curtis similarity 87.8) as compared with relative microbial abundances (similarity 66.8), implying that natural AMD microbial assemblages may be better predicted at the functional genes level rather than at taxonomic level. Furthermore, relative metabolic potentials of genes involved in many key ecological functions (for example, nitrogen and phosphate utilization, metals resistance and stress response) were extrapolated to increase under more acidic and metal-rich conditions, indicating a critical strategy of stress adaptation in these extraordinary communities. Collectively, our findings indicate that natural selection rather than geographic distance has a more crucial role in shaping the taxonomic and functional patterns of AMD microbial community that readily predicted by modeling methods and suggest that the model-based approach is essential to better understand natural acidophilic microbial communities.	2016	10	10.1038/ismej.2015.201	YES	Dave	
Li W; Wang MM; Wang XG; Cheng XL; Guo JJ; Bian XM; Cai L	Fungal communities in sediments of subtropical Chinese seas as estimated by DNA metabarcoding	SCIENTIFIC REPORTS	Ribosomal RNA internal transcribed spacer-1 (ITS1) metabarcoding was used to investigate the distribution patterns of fungal communities and the factors influencing these patterns in subtropical Chinese seas, including the southern and northern Yellow Sea and the Bohai Sea. These seas were found to harbor high levels of fungal diversity, with 816 operational taxonomic units (OTUs) that span 130 known genera, 36 orders, 14 classes and 5 phyla. Ascomycota was the most abundant phylum, containing 72.18% and 79.61% of all OTUs and sequences, respectively, followed by Basidiomycota (19.98%, 18.64%), Zygomycota (1.10%, 0.11%), Chytridiomycota (0.25%, 0.04%) and Rozellomycota (0.12%, 0.006%). The compositions of fungal communities across these three sea regions were found to be vary, which may be attributed to sediment source, geographical distance, latitude and some environmental factors such as the temperature and salinity of bottom water, water depth, total nitrogen, and the ratio of total organic carbon to nitrogen. Among these environmental factors, the temperature of bottom water is the most important driver that governs the distribution patterns of fungal communities across the sampled seas. Our data also suggest that the cold-water mass of the Yellow Sea likely balances competitive relationships between fungal taxa rather than increasing species richness levels.	2016	6	10.1038/srep26528	YES	Dave	
Hu YOO; Karlson B; Charvet S; Andersson AF	Diversity of Pico- to Mesoplankton along the 2000 km Salinity Gradient of the Baltic Sea	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Microbial plankton form the productive base of both marine and freshwater ecosystems and are key drivers of global biogeochemical cycles of carbon and nutrients. Plankton diversity is immense with representations from all major phyla within the three domains of life. So far, plankton monitoring has mainly been based on microscopic identification, which has limited sensitivity and reproducibility, not least because of the numerical majority of plankton being unidentifiable under the light microscope. High-throughput sequencing of taxonomic marker genes offers a means to identify taxa inaccessible by traditional methods; thus, recent studies have unveiled an extensive previously unknown diversity of plankton. Here, we conducted ultra-deep Illumina sequencing (average 105 sequences/sample) of rRNA gene amplicons of surface water eukaryotic and bacterial plankton communities sampled in summer along a 2000 km transect following the salinity gradient of the Baltic Sea. Community composition was strongly correlated with salinity for both bacterial and eukaryotic plankton assemblages, highlighting the importance of salinity for structuring the biodiversity within this ecosystem. In contrast, no clear trends in alpha-diversity for bacterial or eukaryotic communities could be detected along the transect. The distribution of major planktonic taxa followed expected patterns as observed in monitoring programs, but groups novel to the Baltic Sea were also identified, such as relatives to the coccolithophore Erniliana huxleyi detected in the northern Baltic Sea. This study provides the first ultra-deep sequencing-based survey on eukaryotic and bacterial plankton biogeography in the Baltic Sea.	2016	7	10.5589/fmicb.2016.00679	MAYBE	Dave	
Cao HC; Chen RR; Wang LB; Jiang LL; Yang F; Zheng SX; Wang GJ; Lin XG	Soil pH, total phosphorus, climate and distance are the major factors influencing microbial activity at a regional spatial scale	SCIENTIFIC REPORTS	Considering the extensive functional redundancy in microbial communities and great difficulty in elucidating it based on taxonomic structure, studies on the biogeography of soil microbial activity at large spatial scale are as important as microbial community structure. Eighty-four soil samples were collected across a region from south to north China (about 1,000 km) to address the questions if microbial activity displays biogeographic patterns and what are driving forces. These samples represented different soil types, land use and climate. Redundancy analysis and nonmetric multidimensional scaling clearly revealed that soil microbial activities showed distinct differentiation at different sites over a regional spatial scale, which were strongly affected by soil pH, total P, rainfall, temperature, soil type and location. In addition, microbial community structure was greatly influenced by rainfall, location, temperature, soil pH and soil type and was correlated with microbial activity to some extent. Our results suggest that microbial activities display a clear geographic pattern that is greatly altered by geographic distance and reflected by climate, soil pH and total P over large spatial scales. There are common (distance, climate, pH and soil type) but differentiated aspects (TP, SOC and N) in the biogeography of soil microbial community structure and activity.	2016	6	10.1038/srep25815	YES	Dave	
Bertos-Fortis M; Farnelid HM; Lindh MV; Casini M; Andersson A; Pinhassi J; Legrand C	Unscrambling Cyanobacteria Community Dynamics Related to Environmental Factors	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Future climate scenarios in the Baltic Sea project an increase of cyanobacterial bloom frequency and duration, attributed to eutrophication and climate change. Some cyanobacteria can be toxic and their impact on ecosystem services is relevant for a sustainable sea. Yet, there is limited understanding of the mechanisms regulating cyanobacterial diversity and biogeography. Here we unravel successional patterns and changes in cyanobacterial community structure using a 2-year monthly time series during the productive season in a 100 km coastal-offshore transect using microscopy and high-throughput sequencing of 16S rRNA gene fragments. A total of 565 cyanobacterial OTUs were found, of which 231 where filamentous/colonial and 334 picocyanobacterial. Spatial differences in community structure between coastal and offshore waters were minor. An epidemic population structure (dominance of a single cluster) was found for Aphanizomenon/Dolichospermum within the filamentous/colonial cyanobacterial community. In summer, this cluster simultaneously occurred with opportunistic clusters/OTUs, e.g., Nodulana spumigena and Pseudanabaena. Picocyanobacteria, Synechococcus/Cyanobium, formed a consistent but highly diverse group. Overall, the potential drivers structuring summer cyanobacterial communities were temperature and salinity. However, the different responses to environmental factors among and within genera suggest high niche specificity for individual OTUs. The recruitment and occurrence of potentially toxic filamentous/colonial clusters was likely related to disturbance such as mixing events and short-term shifts in salinity, and not solely dependent on increasing temperature and nitrogen-limiting conditions. Nutrients did not explain further the changes in cyanobacterial community composition. Novel occurrence patterns were identified as a strong seasonal succession revealing a tight coupling between the emergence of opportunistic picocyanobacteria and the bloom of filamentous/colonial clusters. These findings highlight that if environmental conditions can partially explain the presence of opportunistic picocyanobacteria, microbial and trophic interactions with filamentous/colonial cyanobacteria should also be considered as potential shaping factors for single-celled communities. Regional climate change scenarios in the Baltic Sea predict environmental shifts leading to higher temperature and lower salinity; conditions identified here as favorable for opportunistic filamentous/colonial cyanobacteria. Altogether, the diversity and complexity of cyanobacterial communities reported here is far greater than previously known, emphasizing the importance of microbial interactions between filamentous and picocyanobacteria in the context of environmental disturbances.	2016	7	10.3389/fmicb.2016.00625	MAYBE	Dave	
Fondi M; Karkman A; Tamminen MV; Bosi E; Virta M; Fani R; Alm E; McInerney JO	Every Gene Is Everywhere but the Environment Selects: Global Geolocalization of Gene Sharing in Environmental Samples through Network Analysis	GENOME BIOLOGY AND EVOLUTION	The spatial distribution of microbes on our planet is famously formulated in the Baas Becking hypothesis as everything is everywhere but the environment selects. While this hypothesis does not strictly rule out patterns caused by geographical effects on ecology and historical founder effects, it does propose that the remarkable dispersal potential of microbes leads to distributions generally shaped by environmental factors rather than geographical distance. By constructing sequence similarity networks from uncultured environmental samples, we show that microbial gene pool distributions are not influenced nearly as much by geography as ecology, thus extending the Bass Becking hypothesis from whole organisms to microbial genes. We find that gene pools are shaped by their broad ecological niche (such as sea water, fresh water, host, and airborne). We find that freshwater habitats act as a gene exchange bridge between otherwise disconnected habitats. Finally, certain antibiotic resistance genes deviate from the general trend of habitat specificity by exhibiting a high degree of cross-habitat mobility. The strong cross-habitat mobility of antibiotic resistance genes is a cause for concern and provides a paradigmatic example of the rate by which genes colonize new habitats when new selective forces emerge.	2016	8	10.1093/gbe/evw077	YES	Dave	
Filker S; Sommaruga R; Vila I; Stoeck T	Microbial eukaryote plankton communities of high-mountain lakes from three continents exhibit strong biogeographic patterns	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	Microbial eukaryotes hold a key role in aquatic ecosystem functioning. Yet, their diversity in freshwater lakes, particularly in high-mountain lakes, is relatively unknown compared with the marine environment. Low nutrient availability, low water temperature and high ultraviolet radiation make most high-mountain lakes extremely challenging habitats for life and require specific molecular and physiological adaptations. We therefore expected that these ecosystems support a plankton diversity that differs notably from other freshwater lakes. In addition, we hypothesized that the communities under study exhibit geographic structuring. Our rationale was that geographic dispersal of small-sized eukaryotes in high-mountain lakes over continental distances seems difficult. We analysed hypervariable V4 fragments of the SSU rRNA gene to compare the genetic microbial eukaryote diversity in high-mountain lakes located in the European Alps, the Chilean Altiplano and the Ethiopian Bale Mountains. Microbial eukaryotes were not globally distributed corroborating patterns found for bacteria, multicellular animals and plants. Instead, the plankton community composition emerged as a highly specific fingerprint of a geographic region even on higher taxonomic levels. The intraregional heterogeneity of the investigated lakes was mirrored in shifts in microbial eukaryote community structure, which, however, was much less pronounced compared with interregional beta-diversity. Statistical analyses revealed that on a regional scale, environmental factors are strong predictors for plankton community structures in high-mountain lakes. While on long-distance scales (> 10 000 km), isolation by distance is the most plausible scenario, on intermediate scales (up to 6000 km), both contemporary environmental factors and historical contingencies interact to shift plankton community structures.	2016	25	10.1111/mec.13633	YES	Dave	
Zhang BL; Wu XK; Zhang GS; Li SY; Zhang W; Chen XM; Sun LK; Zhang BG; Liu GX; Chen T	The diversity and biogeography of the communities of Actinobacteria in the forelands of glaciers at a continental scale	ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH LETTERS	Glacier forelands, where the initially exposed area is unvegetated with minimal human influence, are an ideal place for research on the distributions and biogeography of microbial communities. Actinobacteria produce many bioactive substances and have important roles in soil development and biogeochemical cycling. However, little is known about the distribution and biogeography of Actinobacteria in glacier forelands. Therefore, we investigated the patterns of diversity and the biogeography of actinobacterial communities of the inhabited forefields of 5 glaciers in China. Of the bacteria, the mean relative abundance of Actinobacteria was 13.1%, and 6 classes were identified in the phylum Actinobacteria. The dominant class was Actinobacteria (57%), which was followed in abundance by Acidimicrobiia (19%) and Thermoleophilia (19%). When combined, the relative abundance of the other three classes, the MB-A2-108, Nitriliruptoria and Rubrobacteria, was only 2.4%. Abiogeographic pattern in the forelands of the 5 glaciers in China was not detected for actinobacterial communities. Compared with 7 other actinobacterial communities found in the forelands of glaciers globally, those in the Southern Hemisphere were significantly different from those in the Northern Hemisphere. Moreover, the communities were significantly different on the separate continents of the Northern Hemisphere. The dissimilarity of the actinobacterial communities increased with geographic distance (r=0.428, p=0.0003). Because of environmental factors, the effect of geography was clear when the distance exceeded a certain continent-level threshold. With the analysis of indicator species, we found that each genus had a geographic characteristic, which could explain why the communities with greater diversity were more strongly affected by biogeography.	2016	11	10.1088/1748-9326/11/5/054012	YES	Dave	
Staley C; Sadowsky MJ	Regional Similarities and Consistent Patterns of Local Variation in Beach Sand Bacterial Communities throughout the Northern Hemisphere	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Recent characterization of the bacterial community structure in beach sands has revealed patterns of biogeography similar to those observed in aquatic environments. Studies to date, however, have mainly focused on subtidal sediments from marine beaches. Here, we investigate the bacterial diversity, using Illumina-based sequencing of the V5-V6 region of the 16S rRNA gene, at 11 beaches representing those next to the Great Lakes, Florida, and the Pacific Ocean. The alpha diversity differed significantly among regions (P < 0.0001), while the within-region diversity was more similar. The beta diversity also differed by region (P < 0.001), where freshwater sands had significantly higher abundances of taxa within the Actinobacteria, Betaproteobacteria, and Verrucomicrobia than marine environments. In contrast, marine sands harbored greater abundances of Gammaproteobacteria and Planctomycetes, and those from Florida had more Deltaproteobacteria and Firmicutes. Marine beaches had significantly different phylogenetic community structures (P <= 0.018), but freshwater and Florida beaches showed fewer within-region phylogenetic differences. Furthermore, regionally distinct patterns in taxonomic variation were observed in backshore sands, which had communities distinct from those in nearshore sands (P < 0.001). Sample depth minimally influenced the community composition. The results of this study reveal distinct bacterial community structures in sand on a broad geographic scale but moderate regional similarity and suggest that local variation is primarily related to the distance from the shoreline. This study offers a novel comparison of the bacterial communities in freshwater and marine beach sands and provides an important basis for future comparisons and analyses to elucidate factors affecting microbial ecology in this underexplored environment. IMPORTANCE This study presents a large-scale geographic characterization of the bacterial communities present in beach sands. While previous studies have evaluated how environmental factors influence bacterial community composition, few have evaluated bacterial communities in freshwater sands. Furthermore, the use of a consistent methodology to characterize bacterial communities here allowed a novel comparison of communities across geographic regions. We reveal that while the community composition in sands at individual beaches is distinct, beach sands within the same region harbor similar assemblages of bacteria and these assemblages differ greatly between regions. In addition, moisture, associated with distance from the shoreline, strongly influences the bacteria present in sands and more strongly influences the bacteria present than sample depth does. Thus, the data presented here offer an important basis for a broader characterization of the ecology of bacteria in sands, which may also be relevant to public health and resource management initiatives.	2016	82	10.1128/AEM.00247-16	MAYBE	Dave	
Chu HY; Sun HB; Tripathi BM; Adams JM; Huang R; Zhang YJ; Shi Y	Bacterial community dissimilarity between the surface and subsurface soils equals horizontal differences over several kilometers in the western Tibetan Plateau	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Many studies have investigated patterns in the near-surface soil microbial community over large spatial scales. However, less is known about variation in subsurface (15-30 cm of depth) microbial communities. Here we studied depth profiles of microbial communities in high-elevation soils from Tibet. The relative abundance of Acidobacteria, Chloroflexi and Alphaproteobacteria was higher in near-surface layers, while the relative abundance of Actinobacteria, Gemmatimonadetes and Betaproteobacteria was higher in the subsurface samples. The microbial community structure was distinct between the surface and subsurface soil layers, strongly correlating with variation in total carbon (TC) and carbon to nitrogen ratio (C/N). The differences in the microbial community between the layers were about the same as the horizontal differences between sites separated by many kilometers. Overall, we found that TC and C/N were the best predictors for both surface and subsurface microbial community distribution. Exploration of the relative contribution of distance and environmental variables to community composition suggests that the contemporary environment is the primary driver of microbial distribution in this region. Reflecting niche conservatism in evolution, the microbial communities in each soil site and layer tended to be more phylogenetically clustered than expected by chance, and surface soil layer samples were more likely to be clustered than subsurface samples.	2016	18	10.1111/1462-2920.13236	YES	Dave	
Llewellyn MS; McGinnity P; Dionne M; Letourneau J; Thonier F; Carvalho GR; Creer S; Derome N	The biogeography of the atlantic salmon (Salmo salar) gut microbiome	ISME JOURNAL	Although understood in many vertebrate systems, the natural diversity of host-associated microbiota has been little studied in teleosts. For migratory fishes, successful exploitation of multiple habitats may affect and be affected by the composition of the intestinal microbiome. We collected 96 Salmo salar from across the Atlantic encompassing both freshwater and marine phases. Dramatic differences between environmental and gut bacterial communities were observed. Furthermore, community composition was not significantly impacted by geography. Instead life-cycle stage strongly defined both the diversity and identity of microbial assemblages in the gut, with evidence for community destabilisation in migratory phases. Mycoplasmataceae phylotypes were abundantly recovered in all life-cycle stages. Patterns of Mycoplasmataceae phylotype recruitment to the intestinal microbial community among sites and life-cycle stages support a dual role for deterministic and stochastic processes in defining the composition of the S. salar gut microbiome.	2016	10	10.1038/ismej.2015.189	MAYBE	Dave	
Cox F; Newsham KK; Bol R; Dungait JAJ; Robinson CH	Not poles apart: Antarctic soil fungal communities show similarities to those of the distant Arctic	ECOLOGY LETTERS	Antarcticas extreme environment and geographical isolation offers a useful platform for testing the relative roles of environmental selection and dispersal barriers influencing fungal communities. The former process should lead to convergence in community composition with other cold environments, such as those in the Arctic. Alternatively, dispersal limitations should minimise similarity between Antarctica and distant northern landmasses. Using high-throughput sequencing, we show that Antarctica shares significantly more fungi with the Arctic, and more fungi display a bipolar distribution, than would be expected in the absence of environmental filtering. In contrast to temperate and tropical regions, there is relatively little endemism, and a strongly bimodal distribution of range sizes. Increasing southerly latitude is associated with lower endemism and communities increasingly dominated by fungi with widespread ranges. These results suggest that microorganisms with well-developed dispersal capabilities can inhabit opposite poles of the Earth, and dominate extreme environments over specialised local species.	2016	19	10.1111/ele.12587	MAYBE	Dave	
Stone BWG; Jackson CR	Biogeographic Patterns Between Bacterial Phyllosphere Communities of the Southern Magnolia (Magnolia grandiflora) in a Small Forest	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	The phyllosphere presents a unique system of discrete and easily replicable surfaces colonized primarily by bacteria. However, the biogeography of bacteria in the phyllosphere is little understood, especially at small to intermediate scales. Bacterial communities on the leaves of 91 southern magnolia (Magnolia grandiflora) trees 1-452 m apart in a small forest plot were analyzed and fragments of the 16S ribosomal RNA (rRNA) gene sequenced using the Illumina platform. Assemblages were dominated by members of the Alphaproteobacteria, Bacteroidetes, and Acidobacteria. Patterns in community composition were measured by both relative abundance (theta) and presence-absence (Jaccard) dissimilarity metrics. Distance-based Morans eigenvector map analyses of the distance-decay relationship found a significant, positive relationship between each dissimilarity metric and significant eigenfunctions derived from geographic distance between trees, indicating trees that were closer together had more similar bacterial phyllosphere communities. Indirect gradient analyses revealed that several environmental parameters (canopy cover, tree elevation, and the slope and aspect of the ground beneath trees) were significantly related to multivariate ordination scores based on relative bacterial sequence abundances; however, these relationships were not significant when looking at the incidence of bacterial taxa. This suggests that bacterial growth and abundance in the phyllosphere is shaped by different assembly mechanisms than bacterial presence or absence. More broadly, this study demonstrates that the distance-decay relationship applies to phyllosphere communities at local scales, and that environmental parameters as well as neutral forces may both influence spatial patterns in the phyllosphere.	2016	71	10.1007/s00248-016-0738-4	YES	Dave	
Yang J; Ma L; Jiang HC; Wu G; Dong HL	Salinity shapes microbial diversity and community structure in surface sediments of the Qinghai-Tibetan Lakes	SCIENTIFIC REPORTS	Investigating microbial response to environmental variables is of great importance for understanding of microbial acclimatization and evolution in natural environments. However, little is known about how microbial communities responded to environmental factors (e.g. salinity, geographic distance) in lake surface sediments of the Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau (QTP). In this study, microbial diversity and community structure in the surface sediments of nine lakes on the QTP were investigated by using the Illumina Miseq sequencing technique and the resulting microbial data were statistically analyzed in combination with environmental variables. The results showed total microbial community of the studied lakes was significantly correlated (r = 0.631, P < 0.001) with lake salinity instead of geographic distance. This suggests that lake salinity is more important than geographic distance in shaping the microbial diversity and community structure in the studied samples. In addition, the abundant and rare taxa (OTUs with relative abundance higher than 1% and lower than 0.01% within one sample, respectively) were significantly (P < 0.05) correlated (r = 0.427 and 0.783, respectively) with salinity, suggesting rare taxa might be more sensitive to salinity than their abundant counterparts, thus cautions should be taken in future when evaluating microbial response (abundant vs. rare sub-communities) to environmental conditions.	2016	6	10.1038/srep25078	YES	Dave	
Zhao F; Xu KD	Biodiversity patterns of soil ciliates along salinity gradients	EUROPEAN JOURNAL OF PROTISTOLOGY	We evaluated ciliate diversity in saline soils with a salinity range from 6.5 to 65 psu by the morphological method of the Ludox-quantitative protargol stain (QPS) and the molecular techniques of ciliate-specific clone library and denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis. No active ciliates could be detected with the Ludox-QPS method, while high molecular diversity of ciliates was found. The highest ciliate molecular diversity was obtained from the soil at salinity of 8.9 psu, moderate diversity was found at salinity of 6.5 psu, and the diversity sharply decreased at salinity of 50.5 psu. By contrast, the number of ciliate classes clearly decreased with increasing soil salinity: six, five, four and two classes from sites with salinity of 6.5 psu, 8.9 psu, 29.5 psu and 50.5 psu, respectively. Ciliate diversity pattern is different from that of bacteria, whose diversity is also high in extremely saline environments. Meanwhile, the composition of ciliate community was significantly different along salinity gradient. Colpodea and Oligohymenophorea were diverse in soils at salinity less than 29.5 psu, while absent in soils with salinity above 50.5 psu. BIOENV analysis indicated soil salinity and water content were the main factors regulating the distribution of ciliates in saline soils. (C) 2016 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.	2016	53	10.1016/j.ejop.2015.12.006	MAYBE	Dave	
Walsh EA; Kirkpatrick JB; Rutherford SD; Smith DC; Sogin M; DHondt S	Bacterial diversity and community composition from seasurface to subseafloor	ISME JOURNAL	We investigated compositional relationships between bacterial communities in the water column and those in deep-sea sediment at three environmentally distinct Pacific sites (two in the Equatorial Pacific and one in the North Pacific Gyre). Through pyrosequencing of the v4-v6 hypervariable regions of the 16S ribosomal RNA gene, we characterized 450 104 pyrotags representing 29 814 operational taxonomic units (OTUs, 97% similarity). Hierarchical clustering and non-metric multidimensional scaling partition the samples into four broad groups, regardless of geographic location: a photic-zone community, a subphotic community, a shallow sedimentary community and a subseafloor sedimentary community (>= 1.5 meters below seafloor). Abundance-weighted community compositions of water-column samples exhibit a similar trend with depth at all sites, with successive epipelagic, mesopelagic, bathypelagic and abyssopelagic communities. Taxonomic richness is generally highest in the water-column O-2 minimum zone and lowest in the subseafloor sediment. OTUs represented by abundant tags in the subseafloor sediment are often present but represented by few tags in the water column, and represented by moderately abundant tags in the shallow sediment. In contrast, OTUs represented by abundant tags in the water are generally absent from the subseafloor sediment. These results are consistent with (i) dispersal of marine sedimentary bacteria via the ocean, and (ii) selection of the subseafloor sedimentary community from within the community present in shallow sediment.	2016	10	10.1038/ismej.2015.175	MAYBE	Dave	
Liu JJ; Sui YY; Yu ZH; Yao Q; Shi Y; Chu HY; Jin J; Liu XB; Wang GH	Diversity and distribution patterns of acidobacterial communities in the black soil zone of northeast China	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	Although Acidobacteria are ubiquitous and are commonly one of the most abundant bacterial phyla in soils, knowledge regarding their diversity and distribution is still limited. Our previous studies discovered the biogeographical distribution patterns of bacterial and fungal communities in the black soil zone of northeast China. In this study, we further investigated the diversity and composition of acidobacterial communities generated with the Acidobacteria-specific primers ACIDO/342r in the same soil samples using quantitative PCR and Illumina MiSeq sequencing methods. A total of 412,203 acidobacterial 16S rRNA gene sequences were obtained from 26 soil samples that were collected from arable lands across the black soil zone. These sequences belonged to 21 subgroups, and GP1, GP3, GP4 and GP6 were the most abundant subgroups, accounting for 22.63%, 17.17%, 23.82% and 27.47% of acidobacterial sequences across all soils, respectively. The abundance of Acidobacteria displayed a more significant positive correlation with soil carbon content than with soil pH, and the relative abundance of certain subgroups was significantly positive or negative related with soil pH. The OTU richness, phylogenetic diversity and community composition of Acidobacteria were significantly correlated with soil pH. A variance partitioning analysis showed that the soil pH contributed 25% of the community variation, while the geographic distance explained only approximately 5% of the variation. These results indicated that soil pH was a main factor structuring acidobacterial communities in the black soil zone of northeast China. Our results also suggested that the Acidobacteria-specific primers could be better used for studying the distribution of acidobacterial communities in soils. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2016	95	10.1016/j.soilbio.2015.12.021	YES	Dave	
Jiang YJ; Liang YT; Li CM; Wang F; Sui YY; Suvannang N; Zhou JZ; Sun B	Crop rotations alter bacterial and fungal diversity in paddy soils across East Asia	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	Rice ecosystems are distributed broadly from temperate to tropical regions, but little is known about the underlying mechanisms shaping microbial communities and their network structure in paddy soils at the continental scale. Soil samples were collected from paddy fields across East Asia representing four types of crop rotations: single rice, rice-wheat rotation, double rice, and rice-legume-rice rotation. Here, we describe the roles that crop rotations, environmental heterogeneity and geographical distance play in determining the spatial distribution of microbial communities in paddy soils across East Asia. Our survey revealed remarkable differences in the diversity and composition of microbial operational taxonomic units (OTUs) among four crop rotations. The shared cosmopolitan OTUs Rhizobiales bacterium (genus Bradyrhizobium) and Hypocreales fungus played key-species roles in the ecological networks. A steeper slope of distance decay for the fungal samples compared with the bacterial samples implies a faster turnover in fungal OTU composition across geographical zones. Bacterial communities were affected by soil environmental heterogeneity to an extent that overwhelmed the effect of geographical distance, whereas fungal communities were better predicted by geographical distance. The diversity and composition of bacterial and fungal communities corresponded strongly to soil pH but less strongly to total nitrogen. Remarkably, crop rotations played a key role in determining the changes in microbial diversity, community composition and networks. Taken together, these results provide a baseline ecological framework with which to pursue future research on soil microbial function in paddy soils. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2016	95	10.1016/j.soilbio.2016.01.007	YES	Dave	
Andam CP; Doroghazi JR; Campbell AN; Kelly PJ; Choudoir MJ; Buckley DH	A Latitudinal Diversity Gradient in Terrestrial Bacteria of the Genus Streptomyces	MBIO	We show that Streptomyces biogeography in soils across North America is influenced by the regional diversification of microorganisms due to dispersal limitation and genetic drift. Streptomyces spp. form desiccation-resistant spores, which can be dispersed on the wind, allowing for a strong test of whether dispersal limitation governs patterns of terrestrial microbial diversity. We employed an approach that has high sensitivity for determining the effects of genetic drift. Specifically, we examined the genetic diversity and phylogeography of physiologically similar Streptomyces strains isolated from geographically distributed yet ecologically similar habitats. We found that Streptomyces beta diversity scales with geographic distance and both beta diversity and phylogenetic diversity manifest in a latitudinal diversity gradient. This pattern of Streptomyces biogeography resembles patterns seen for diverse species of plants and animals, and we therefore evaluated these data in the context of ecological and evolutionary hypotheses proposed to explain latitudinal diversity gradients. The data are consistent with the hypothesis that niche conservatism limits dispersal, and historical patterns of glaciation have limited the time for speciation in higher-latitude sites. Most notably, higher-latitude sites have lower phylogenetic diversity, higher phylogenetic clustering, and evidence of range expansion from lower latitudes. In addition, patterns of beta diversity partition with respect to the glacial history of sites. Hence, the data support the hypothesis that extant patterns of Streptomyces biogeography have been driven by historical patterns of glaciation and are the result of demographic range expansion, dispersal limitation, and regional diversification due to drift. IMPORTANCE Biogeographic patterns provide insight into the evolutionary and ecological processes that govern biodiversity. However, the evolutionary and ecological processes that govern terrestrial microbial diversity remain poorly characterized. We evaluated the biogeography of the genus Streptomyces to show that the diversity of terrestrial bacteria is governed by many of the same processes that govern the diversity of many plant and animal species. While bacteria of the genus Streptomyces are a preeminent source of antibiotics, their evolutionary history, biogeography, and biodiversity remain poorly characterized. The observations we describe provide insight into the drivers of Streptomyces biodiversity and the processes that underlie microbial diversification in terrestrial habitats.	2016	7	10.1128/mBio.02200-15	MAYBE	Dave	
Salazar G; Cornejo-Castillo FM; Benitez-Barrios V; Fraile-Nuez E; Alvarez-Salgado XA; Duarte CM; Gasol JM; Acinas SG	Global diversity and biogeography of deep-sea pelagic prokaryotes	ISME JOURNAL	The deep-sea is the largest biome of the biosphere, and contains more than half of the whole oceans microbes. Uncovering their general patterns of diversity and community structure at a global scale remains a great challenge, as only fragmentary information of deep-sea microbial diversity exists based on regional-scale studies. Here we report the first globally comprehensive survey of the prokaryotic communities inhabiting the bathypelagic ocean using high-throughput sequencing of the 16S rRNA gene. This work identifies the dominant prokaryotes in the pelagic deep ocean and reveals that 50% of the operational taxonomic units (OTUs) belong to previously unknown prokaryotic taxa, most of which are rare and appear in just a few samples. We show that whereas the local richness of communities is comparable to that observed in previous regional studies, the global pool of prokaryotic taxa detected is modest (similar to 3600 OTUs), as a high proportion of OTUs are shared among samples. The water masses appear to act as clear drivers of the geographical distribution of both particle-attached and free-living prokaryotes. In addition, we show that the deep-oceanic basins in which the bathypelagic realm is divided contain different particle-attached (but not free-living) microbial communities. The combination of the aging of the water masses and a lack of complete dispersal are identified as the main drivers for this biogeographical pattern. All together, we identify the potential of the deep ocean as a reservoir of still unknown biological diversity with a higher degree of spatial complexity than hitherto considered.	2016	10	10.1038/ismej.2015.137	MAYBE	Dave	
Lara E; Roussel-Delif L; Fournier B; Wilkinson DM; Mitchell EAD	Soil microorganisms behave like macroscopic organisms: patterns in the global distribution of soil euglyphid testate amoebae	JOURNAL OF BIOGEOGRAPHY	AimPatterns of - and -diversity of soil protist communities and the factors that shape them remain largely unknown. We undertook a world-wide survey of forest litter to investigate the patterns of diversity in a group of testate amoebae. We aimed to assess: (1) whether there is a latitudinal gradient in -diversity, and (2) whether -diversity was correlated solely with environmental factors commonly used in soil biology research or if it was also independently explained by geographical barriers. LocationWorld-wide. MethodsWe studied the diversity of Euglyphida, a common group of testate amoebae, in 35 samples of forest litter and moss samples from a global survey, using small subunit rRNA gene sequences. We assessed the relationship between sample -diversity and latitude using generalized additive models (GAM). Furthermore, we determined the relationships between community composition and geographical models (distance-based Morans Eigenvector Maps - db-MEM) using Generalized UniFrac distances (GUniFrac). We also investigated the relationship between individual measured soil parameters, WorldClim data and diversity (alpha plus beta) using both raw data and synthetic variables obtained through principal components analysis. ResultsWe recorded 245 phylotypes belonging to 6 out of 7 known Euglyphida families, plus four novel deep clades. Euglyphid -diversity was positively correlated with temperature and negatively with latitude and litter C/N ratio. Euglyphida community structure was correlated with the spatial eigenvector Db-MEM31, independently of all measured environmental variables. Db-MEM31 corresponds to a natural barrier constituted by the Northern Hemisphere desert belt. Beta diversity was correlated with other environmental variables, such as pH, isothermality and temperature in the coldest month of the year. Main conclusionsSoil euglyphid -diversity displays a latitudinal gradient, and -diversity is not only correlated with climatic and physicochemical parameters but also with geographical barriers. Such patterns of diversity were until recently believed to be characteristic only for macroscopic organisms.	2016	43	10.1111/jbi.12660	YES	Dave	
Fournier B; Coffey EED; van der Knaap WO; Fernandez LD; Bobrov A; Mitchell EAD	A legacy of human-induced ecosystem changes: spatial processes drive the taxonomic and functional diversities of testate amoebae in Sphagnum peatlands of the Galapagos	JOURNAL OF BIOGEOGRAPHY	AimOur aims were to compare the composition of testate amoeba (TA) communities from Santa Cruz Island, Galapagos Archipelago, which are likely in existence only as a result of anthropogenic habitat transformation, with similar naturally occurring communities from northern and southern continental peatlands. Additionally, we aimed at assessing the importance of niche-based and dispersal-based processes in determining community composition and taxonomic and functional diversity. LocationThe humid highlands of the central island of Santa Cruz, Galapagos Archipelago. MethodsWe survey the alpha, beta and gamma taxonomic and functional diversities of TA, and the changes in functional traits along a gradient of wet to dry habitats. We compare the TA community composition, abundance and frequency recorded in the insular peatlands with that recorded in continental peatlands of Northern and Southern Hemispheres. We use generalized linear models to determine how environmental conditions influence taxonomic and functional diversity as well as the mean values of functional traits within communities. We finally apply variance partitioning to assess the relative importance of niche- and dispersal-based processes in determining community composition. ResultsTA communities in Santa Cruz Island were different from their Northern Hemisphere and South American counterparts with most genera considered as characteristic for Northern Hemisphere and South American Sphagnum peatlands missing or very rare in the Galapagos. Functional traits were most correlated with elevation and site topography and alpha functional diversity to the type of material sampled and site topography. Community composition was more strongly correlated with spatial variables than with environmental ones. Main conclusionsTA communities of the Sphagnum peatlands of Santa Cruz Island and the mechanisms shaping these communities contrast with Northern Hemisphere and South American peatlands. Soil moisture was not a strong predictor of community composition most likely because rainfall and clouds provide sufficient moisture. Dispersal limitation was more important than environmental filtering because of the isolation of the insular peatlands from continental ones and the young ecological history of these ecosystems.	2016	43	10.1111/jbi.12655	YES	Dave	
Nagler M; Ascher J; Gomez-Brandon M; Insam H	Soil microbial communities along the route of a venturous cycling trip	APPLIED SOIL ECOLOGY	The purpose of the present study is not solely scientific but arose from a rare fusion of art and science during a venturesome bicycle trip from Austria (Europe) to Laos (Asia). The artist Wolfgang Burtscher produced every-day dirt tire imprints on papers (tripmarks) to document his journey (www.tripmarks.at) Contributing to public awareness in this International Year of Soils 2015 we took a closer look at the dirt forming these pieces of art, namely to investigate the inherent microbial life. As such, we benefited from minute soil samples along a global transect, which permitted the classical hypothesis on microbial cosmopolitanism to be evaluated. DNA from 0.1 g soil was extracted and amplified with specific primers for fungi and actinobacteria to obtain denaturing gradient gel (DGGE) fingerprinting patterns. Spatial variables were generated by applying trend surface analysis and principal coordinates of neighbour matrices. Canonical correspondence analysis was also used to check for driving factors. Our results show that microbial variability is primarily being influenced by environmental rather than spatial patterns. Clearly distinct communities in the soils of distant sampling sites were formed for actinobacteria but not for fungi. Furthermore, cosmopolitan phylotypes with relative abundances as high as 80.5% (fungi) and 74.0% (actinobacteria) were detected. These findings show that Eurasian soil microbial communities follow environmental rather than spatial constraints. For the artist, these results emphasize the broad diversity of microorganisms present on his tripmarks joining the facet of the beauty and variety of life with his dirty tire imprints. (C) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2016	99	10.1016/j.apsoil.2015.11.010	YES	Dave	
Geremia RA; Puscas M; Zinger L; Bonneville JM; Choler P	Contrasting microbial biogeographical patterns between anthropogenic subalpine grasslands and natural alpine grasslands	NEW PHYTOLOGIST	The effect of plant species composition on soil microbial communities was studied at the multiregional level. We compared the soil microbial communities of alpine natural grasslands dominated by Carex curvula and anthropogenic subalpine pastures dominated by Nardus stricta. We conducted paired sampling across the Carpathians and the Alps and used Illumina sequencing to reveal the molecular diversity of soil microbes. We found that bacterial and fungal communities exhibited contrasting regional distributions and that the distribution in each grassland is well discriminated. Beta diversity of microbial communities was much higher in C. curvula grasslands due to a marked regional effect. The composition of grassland-type core microbiomes suggest that C. curvula, and N. stricta to a lesser extent, tend to select a cohort of microbes related to antibiosis/exclusion, pathogenesis and endophytism. We discuss these findings in light of the postglacial history of the studied grasslands, the habitat connectivity and the disturbance regimes. Human-induced disturbance in the subalpine belt of European mountains has led to homogeneous soil microbial communities at large biogeographical scales. Our results confirm the overarching role of the dominant grassland plant species in the distribution of microbial communities and highlight the relevance of biogeographical history.	2016	209	10.1111/nph.13690	MAYBE	Dave	
Han D; Nam SI; Ha HK; Kim H; Sadowsky MJ; Lee YK; Hur HG	Bacterial biogeography influenced by shelf-basin exchange in the Arctic surface sediment at the Chukchi Borderland	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	It has been known that continental shelves around the Arctic Ocean play a major role in the ventilation of the deep basins as a consequence of shelf-basin exchange. In the present study, we found that bacterial assemblage of the surface sediment was different from that of seawater while seawater harboured local bacterial assemblages in response to the Arctic hydrography. This finding suggests that the Arctic seafloor sediments may have distinctive bacterial biogeography. Moreover, the distribution of bacterial assemblages and physicochemical properties in surface sediments changed gradually from the Arctic continental shelf to deep-sea basin. Based on the results, bacterial biogeography in the Arctic seafloor sediments may be influenced by winnowing and re-deposition of surface sediments through the sediment gravity flow. The present study offers a deeper understanding of shelf convection and its role for the construction of bacterial assemblages in the Arctic Ocean.	2016	18	10.1111/1462-2920.13064	MAYBE	Dave	
Cameron KA; Stibal M; Zarsky JD; Gozdereliler E; Schostag M; Jacobsen CS	Supraglacial bacterial community structures vary across the Greenland ice sheet	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	The composition and spatial variability of microbial communities that reside within the extensive (>200 000 km(2)) biologically active area encompassing the Greenland ice sheet (GrIS) is hypothesized to be variable. We examined bacterial communities from cryoconite debris and surface ice across the GrIS, using sequence analysis and quantitative PCR of 16S rRNA genes from co-extracted DNA and RNA. Communities were found to differ across the ice sheet, with 82.8% of the total calculated variation attributed to spatial distribution on a scale of tens of kilometers separation. Amplicons related to Sphingobacteriaceae, Pseudanabaenaceae and WPS-2 accounted for the greatest portion of calculated dissimilarities. The bacterial communities of ice and cryoconite were moderately similar (global R = 0.360, P = 0.002) and the sampled surface type (ice versus cryoconite) did not contribute heavily towards community dissimilarities (2.3% of total variability calculated). The majority of dissimilarities found between cryoconite 16S rRNA gene amplicons from DNA and RNA was calculated to be the result of changes in three taxa, Pseudanabaenaceae, Sphingobacteriaceae and WPS-2, which together contributed towards 80.8 +/- 12.6% of dissimilarities between samples. Bacterial communities across the GrIS are spatially variable active communities that are likely influenced by localized biological inputs and physicochemical conditions.	2016	92	10.1093/femsec/fiv164	YES	Dave	
Deng Y; He ZL; Xiong JB; Yu H; Xu MY; Hobbie SE; Reich PB; Schadt CW; Kent A; Pendall E; Wallenstein M; Zhou JZ	Elevated carbon dioxide accelerates the spatial turnover of soil microbial communities	GLOBAL CHANGE BIOLOGY	Although elevated CO2 (eCO(2)) significantly affects the -diversity, composition, function, interaction and dynamics of soil microbial communities at the local scale, little is known about eCO(2) impacts on the geographic distribution of micro-organisms regionally or globally. Here, we examined the -diversity of 110 soil microbial communities across six free air CO2 enrichment (FACE) experimental sites using a high-throughput functional gene array. The -diversity of soil microbial communities was significantly (P<0.05) correlated with geographic distance under both CO2 conditions, but declined significantly (P<0.05) faster at eCO(2) with a slope of -0.0250 than at ambient CO2 (aCO(2)) with a slope of -0.0231 although it varied within each individual site, indicating that the spatial turnover rate of soil microbial communities was accelerated under eCO(2) at a larger geographic scale (e.g. regionally). Both distance and soil properties significantly (P<0.05) contributed to the observed microbial -diversity. This study provides new hypotheses for further understanding their assembly mechanisms that may be especially important as global CO2 continues to increase.	2016	22	10.1111/gcb.13098	YES	Dave	
Tedersoo L; Bahram M; Cajthaml T; Polme S; Hiiesalu I; Anslan S; Harend H; Buegger F; Pritsch K; Koricheva J; Abarenkov K	Tree diversity and species identity effects on soil fungi, protists and animals are context dependent	ISME JOURNAL	Plant species richness and the presence of certain influential species (sampling effect) drive the stability and functionality of ecosystems as well as primary production and biomass of consumers. However, little is known about these floristic effects on richness and community composition of soil biota in forest habitats owing to methodological constraints. We developed a DNA metabarcoding approach to identify the major eukaryote groups directly from soil with roughly species-level resolution. Using this method, we examined the effects of tree diversity and individual tree species on soil microbial biomass and taxonomic richness of soil biota in two experimental study systems in Finland and Estonia and accounted for edaphic variables and spatial autocorrelation. Our analyses revealed that the effects of tree diversity and individual species on soil biota are largely context dependent. Multiple regression and structural equation modelling suggested that biomass, soil pH, nutrients and tree species directly affect richness of different taxonomic groups. The community composition of most soil organisms was strongly correlated due to similar response to environmental predictors rather than causal relationships. On a local scale, soil resources and tree species have stronger effect on diversity of soil biota than tree species richness per se.	2016	10	10.1038/ismej.2015.116	YES	Dave	
Tisthammer KH; Cobian GM; Amend AS	Global biogeography of marine fungi is shaped by the environment	FUNGAL ECOLOGY	Fungi are essential components of marine ecosystems, yet very little is known about their global distribution and diversity in the marine environment. In this study, we analyzed marine fungal community structure at a global scale using the International Census of Marine Microbes dataset. Marine fungal communities sampled from both the water column and sediments were compared. Based on the sequences of the nuclear ribosomal small subunit V9 region, 2200 operational taxonomic units (OTUs) were identified at 97% similarity. There was a significant distinction between the pelagic and benthic communities, with 15.4% OTUs shared between the two realms. Environmental factors, particularly sample depth, oxygen, and nitrate, strongly correlated with the fungal community composition and explained more variance than did geographic distance. This study represents the first global-scale analysis of marine fungal community structure, and highlights potential opportunities for research in marine fungal ecology and biogeography. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd and The British Mycological Society. All rights reserved.	2016	19	10.1016/j.funeco.2015.09.003	YES	Dave	
Duarte S; Barlocher F; Pascoal C; Cassio F	Biogeography of aquatic hyphomycetes: Current knowledge and future perspectives	FUNGAL ECOLOGY	Since Ingolds (1942) initial description, mycologists have been interested in deciphering global distribution patterns of aquatic hyphomycetes, a group of fungi that play a key role in plant-litter decomposition in freshwaters. However, many questions remain largely unanswered. In this review, we used distribution data of morphospecies from studies throughout the world in an attempt to better understand the magnitude of global species richness, patterns of biodiversity and the extent of cosmopolitanism versus endemism. Sampling efforts have varied among geographic regions, and correlate significantly with species richness. Community similarity decreased with geographic or latitudinal distance. Species richness was highest at mid-latitudes (temperate streams), and high community similarities were found between geographically distant locations in similar climatic zones. Studies relying on morphotypes have undoubtedly provided relevant information on the geographic distribution of aquatic hyphomycetes. However, metagenomic approaches combining taxonomic, phylogenetic and functional diversity in coordinated surveys will be the best option to better decipher diversity patterns of these fungi and their functional roles at a global scale. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd and The British Mycological Society. All rights reserved.	2016	19	10.1016/j.funeco.2015.06.002	YES	Dave	
Bienhold C; Zinger L; Boetius A; Ramette A	Diversity and Biogeography of Bathyal and Abyssal Seafloor Bacteria	PLOS ONE	The deep ocean floor covers more than 60% of the Earths surface, and hosts diverse bacterial communities with important functions in carbon and nutrient cycles. The identification of key bacterial members remains a challenge and their patterns of distribution in seafloor sediment yet remain poorly described. Previous studies were either regionally restricted or included few deep-sea sediments, and did not specifically test biogeographic patterns across the vast oligotrophic bathyal and abyssal seafloor. Here we define the composition of this deep seafloor microbiome by describing those bacterial operational taxonomic units (OTU) that are specifically associated with deep-sea surface sediments at water depths ranging from 1000-5300 m. We show that the microbiome of the surface seafloor is distinct from the subsurface seafloor. The cosmopolitan bacterial OTU were affiliated with the clades JTB255 (class Gammaproteobacteria, order Xanthomonadales) and OM1 (Actinobacteria, order Acidimicrobiales), comprising 21% and 7% of their respective clades, and about 1% of all sequences in the study. Overall, few sequence-abundant bacterial types were globally dispersed and displayed positive range-abundance relationships. Most bacterial populations were rare and exhibited a high degree of endemism, explaining the substantial differences in community composition observed over large spatial scales. Despite the relative physicochemical uniformity of deep-sea sediments, we identified indicators of productivity regimes, especially sediment organic matter content, as factors significantly associated with changes in bacterial community structure across the globe.	2016	11	10.1371/journal.pone.0148016	MAYBE	Dave	
Jeffries TC; Fontes MLS; Harrison DP; Van-Dongen-Vogels V; Eyre BD; Ralph PJ; Seymour JR	Bacterioplankton Dynamics within a Large Anthropogenically Impacted Urban Estuary	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	The abundant and diverse microorganisms that inhabit aquatic systems are both determinants and indicators of aquatic health, providing essential ecosystem services such as nutrient cycling but also causing harmful blooms and disease in impacted habitats. Estuaries are among the most urbanized coastal ecosystems and as a consequence experience substantial environmental pressures, providing ideal systems to study the influence of anthropogenic inputs on microbial ecology. Here we use the highly urbanized Sydney Harbor, Australia, as a model system to investigate shifts in microbial community composition and function along natural and anthopogenic physicochemical gradients, driven by stormwater inflows, tidal flushing and the input of contaminants and both naturally and anthropogenically derived nutrients. Using a combination of amplicon sequencing of the 16S rRNA gene and shotgun metagenomics, we observed strong patterns in microbial biogeography across the estuary during two periods: one of high and another of low rainfall. These patterns were driven by shifts in nutrient concentration and dissolved oxygen leading to a partitioning of microbial community composition in different areas of the harbor with different nutrient regimes. Patterns in bacterial composition were related to shifts in the abundance of Rhodobacteraceae, Flavobacteriaceae, Microbacteriaceae, Halomonadaceae, Acidomicrobiales, and Synechococcus, coupled to an enrichment of total microbial metabolic pathways including phosphorus and nitrogen metabolism, sulfate reduction, virulence, and the degradation of hydrocarbons. Additionally, community beta-diversity was partitioned between the two sampling periods. This potentially reflected the influence of shifting allochtonous nutrient inputs on microbial communities and highlighted the temporally dynamic nature of the system. Combined, our results provide insights into the simultaneous influence of natural and anthropogenic drivers on the structure and function of microbial communities within a highly urbanized aquatic ecosystem.	2016	6	10.3389/fmicb.2015.01438	MAYBE	Dave	
Frade PR; Roll K; Bergauer K; Herndl GJ	Archaeal and Bacterial Communities Associated with the Surface Mucus of Caribbean Corals Differ in Their Degree of Host Specificity and Community Turnover Over Reefs	PLOS ONE	Comparative studies on the distribution of archaeal versus bacterial communities associated with the surface mucus layer of corals have rarely taken place. It has therefore remained enigmatic whether mucus-associated archaeal and bacterial communities exhibit a similar specificity towards coral hosts and whether they vary in the same fashion over spatial gradients and between reef locations. We used microbial community profiling (terminal-restriction fragment length polymorphism, T-RFLP) and clone library sequencing of the 16S rRNA gene to compare the diversity and community structure of dominant archaeal and bacterial communities associating with the mucus of three common reef-building coral species (Porites astreoides, Siderastrea siderea and Orbicella annularis) over different spatial scales on a Caribbean fringing reef. Sampling locations included three reef sites, three reef patches within each site and two depths. Reference sediment samples and ambient water were also taken for each of the 18 sampling locations resulting in a total of 239 samples. While only 41% of the bacterial operational taxonomic units (OTUs) characterized by T-RFLP were shared between mucus and the ambient water or sediment, for archaeal OTUs this percentage was 2-fold higher (78%). About half of the mucus-associated OTUs (44% and 58% of bacterial and archaeal OTUs, respectively) were shared between the three coral species. Our multivariate statistical analysis (ANOSIM, PERMANOVA and CCA) showed that while the bacterial community composition was determined by habitat (mucus, sediment or seawater), host coral species, location and spatial distance, the archaeal community composition was solely determined by the habitat. This study highlights that mucus-associated archaeal and bacterial communities differ in their degree of community turnover over reefs and in their host-specificity.	2016	11	10.1371/journal.pone.0144702	YES	Dave	
Milici M; Tomasch J; Wos-Oxley ML; Wang H; Jauregui R; Camarinha-Silva A; Deng ZL; Plumeier I; Giebel HA; Wurst M; Pieper DH; Simon M; Wagner-Dobler I	Low diversity of planktonic bacteria in the tropical ocean	SCIENTIFIC REPORTS	The diversity of macro-organisms increases towards the equator, with almost no exceptions. It is the most conserved biogeographical pattern on earth and is thought to be related to the increase of temperature and productivity in the tropics. The extent and orientation of a latitudinal gradient of marine bacterioplankton diversity is controversial. Here we studied the euphotic zone of the Atlantic Ocean based on a transect covering similar to 12.000 km from 51 degrees S to 47 degrees N. Water samples were collected at 26 stations at five depths between 20 and 200 m and sequentially filtered through 8 mu m, 3 mu m and 0,22 mu m filters, resulting in a total of 359 samples. Illumina sequencing of the V5-V6 region of the 16S rRNA gene revealed a clear biogeographic pattern with a double inverted latitudinal gradient. Diversity was higher in mid-latitudinal regions of the Atlantic Ocean and decreased towards the equator. This pattern was conserved for bacteria from all three planktonic size fractions. Diversity showed a non-linear relationship with temperature and was negatively correlated with bacterial cell numbers in the upper depth layers (<100 m). The latitudinal gradients of marine bacterial diversity and the mechanisms that govern them are distinct from those found in macro-organisms.	2016	6	10.1038/srep19054	MAYBE	Dave	
Kirchman DL; Cottrel MT; DiTullio GR	Shaping of bacterial community composition and diversity by phytoplankton and salinity in the Delaware Estuary, USA	AQUATIC MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Our understanding of the impact of phytoplankton on bacterial communities is largely based on studies showing that a few bacteria have interactions with the phytoplankton class, which is often diatoms, dominating phytoplankton communities. To determine the effect of the complete phytoplankton community on the entire bacterial community, we used tag pyro sequences of the 16S rRNA gene and phytoplankton pigments measured by high performance liquid chromatography along with Chemtax analyses to examine bacterial and phytoplankton communities along the salinity gradient of the Delaware Estuary, USA, in August and November of 3 years (2011-2013). Salinity had a large effect on the composition, taxon richness, and evenness of bacterial communities in the estuary, but so too did the composition and biomass of the phytoplankton community. Phytoplankton classes had a larger effect in shaping the composition of bacterial communities than did total chlorophyll a. Although diatoms and cryptophytes dominated the phytoplankton communities in both August and November, less common phytoplankton classes, such as dinoflagellates, haptophytes, and prasinophytes, had more significant relationships with the entire bacterial community and with individual bacterial taxa. In contrast, the 2 most abundant bacterial subclades in the estuary, SAR11 IIIa and SAR 11 IIIb, had few significant relationships with chlorophyll a or with phytoplankton classes. These data on bacterial and phytoplankton community composition help to explain the weak coupling between bacteria and phytoplankton communities often observed in estuarine and other aquatic systems.	2016	78	10.3354/ame01805	MAYBE	Dave	
Keuter S; Rinkevich B	Spatial homogeneity of bacterial and archaeal communities in the deep eastern Mediterranean Sea surface sediments	INTERNATIONAL MICROBIOLOGY	The diversity of microorganisms inhabiting the deep sea surface sediments was investigated in 9 stations (700-1900 m depth) in the Levantine basin by 454 massive tag sequencing of the 16S rDNA V4 region using universal primers. In total, 108,811 reads (an average of 10,088 per sample) were assigned to 5014 bacterial and 966 archaeal operational taxonomic units (OTUs; at 97% cut off). The 55% of the reads were of archaea, indicating dominance of archaea over bacteria at eight of the stations. The diversity and estimated richness values were high (e.g., H ranged from 5.66 to 7.41 for bacteria). The compositions of the microorganisms at all stations were remarkably similar, with Bray-Curtis similarities of 0.53-0.91 and 0.74-0.99 for bacterial and archaeal orders respectively. At two stations, very high abundances of only a few genera (Marinobacterium, Bacillus, Vibrio, Photobacterium) were accountable for the dissimilarities documented compared to the other deep sea stations. Half of the bacterial reads (51%) belonged to the phylum Proteobacteria, comprising mainly Gammaproteobacteria (41-72% of the proteobacterial reads per sample), Deltaproteobacteria (12-29%), Alphaproteobacteria (7-18%) and Betaproteobacteria (3-14%). The most abundant bacterial family was Sinobacteraceae (order Xanthomonadales) with 5-10% of total bacterial reads per sample. Most abundant reads (15.4% of all microbial reads) were affiliated with Marine Group 1 archaea, putatively capable of ammonia oxidation (213 OTUs), and bacteria involved in nitrification were found in all samples. The data point to the significant role that chemolithotrophic carbon assimilation and nitrification fill in the oligotrophic deep sea Levant sediments.	2016	19	10.2436/20.1501.01.269	MAYBE	Dave	
Zhang BL; Wu XK; Zhang W; Chen XM; Zhang GS; Ai X; Sun LK; Zhang BG; Liu GX; Chen T; Dyson P	Diversity and Succession of Actinobacteria in the Forelands of the Tianshan Glacier, China	GEOMICROBIOLOGY JOURNAL	Actinobacteria are typically soil bacteria that have important roles in soil development and biogeochemical cycling. However, little is known about the occurrence or the succession of communities of Actinobacteria in new habitats. In this study, we investigated the diversity and succession of the actinobacterial communities that inhabited the forelands of the Tianshan Glacier (China), which ranged in successional age from 0 to 100 years since the forefield was deglaciated. Actinobacteria was one of the dominant phyla in the glacier foreland and included the orders Acidimicrobiales, Actinomycetales, Rubrobacteriales and Solirubrobacteriales. Actinomycetales was the dominant order, but its relative abundance decreased through the chronosequence. Acidimicrobiales and Solirubrobacteriales were more abundant in the late stages of succession than in the early ones. The abundance of Rubrobacteriales was only high at 74a. The dominant genera Nocardioides and Arthrobacter were widely distributed and were found in each stage of succession. With nonparametric and rarefaction estimated analyses, we found that the phylotype richness of Actinobacteria was significantly correlated with time (r = 0.886, p = 0.019). The succession of actinobacterial communities was divided into 3 stages: the early stage (6a), the intermediate stage (10a and 20a) and the late stage (60a, 74a, and 100a). Based on the canonical correspondence analysis, the actinobacterial communities were affected significantly by soil pH (r = 0.834, p = 0.039) and somewhat by the C/N ratio (r = 0.783, p = 0.066). The nonmetric multidimensional scaling analysis showed that the effect of geographical isolation on the actinobacterial communities was greater than that of the soils in the development of the chronosequence.	2016	33	10.1080/01490451.2015.1085468	MAYBE	Dave	
Angermeyer A; Crosby SC; Huber JA	Decoupled distance-decay patterns between dsrA and 16S rRNA genes among salt marsh sulfate-reducing bacteria	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	In many habitats, microorganisms exhibit significant distance-decay patterns as determined by analysis of the 16S rRNA gene and various other genetic elements. However, there have been few studies that examine how the similarities of both taxonomic and functional genes co-vary over geographic distance within a group of ecologically related microbes. Here, we determined the biogeographic patterns of the functional dissimilatory sulfite reductase gene (dsrA) and the 16S rRNA gene in sulfate-reducing bacterial communities of US East Coast salt marsh sediments. Distance-decay, ordination and statistical analyses revealed that the distribution of 16S rRNA genes is strongly influenced by geographic distance and environmental factors, whereas the dsrA gene is not. Together, our results indicate that 16S rRNA genes are likely dispersal limited and under environmental selection, whereas dsrA genes appear randomly distributed and not selected for by any expected environmental variables. Selection, drift, dispersal and mutation are all factors that may help explain the decoupled biogeographic patterns for the two genes. These data suggest that both the taxonomic and functional elements of microbial communities should be considered in future studies of microbial biogeography to aid in our understanding of the diversity, distribution and function of microorganisms in the environment.	2016	18	10.1111/1462-2920.12821	YES	Dave	
Wang XG; Li H; Bezemer TM; Hao ZQ	Drivers of bacterial beta diversity in two temperate forests	ECOLOGICAL RESEARCH	Although the consequences of changes in microbial diversity have received increasing attention, our understanding of processes that drive spatial variation in microbial diversity remains limited. In this study, we sampled bacterial communities in early and late successional temperate forests in Northeast China, and used distance-based redundancy analysis to examine how different processes influence bacterial beta diversity and phylogeny-based beta diversity using the Bray-Curtis and UniFrac metrics, respectively. After controlling for sampling effects, bacterial beta diversity in both forests was higher than expected by chance, which indicates that the bacterial community showed strong intraspecific aggregation. Both environmental filtering and dispersal limitation contributed to bacterial beta diversity and phylogeny-based beta diversity in the two forests. However, the relative importance of these different processes varied between the two forests. In the early successional forest, dispersal limitation played a dominant role in structuring the bacterial community, whereas the effects of environmental filtering were more important in the late successional forest. Our study revealed that bacterial beta diversity and phylogeny-based beta diversity in forest communities from the same region are regulated by different forces and that the relative importance of different forces varies over succession.	2016	31	10.1007/s11284-015-1313-z	YES	Dave	
Bolgovics A; Acs E; Varbiro G; Gorgenyi J; Borics G	Species area relationship (SAR) for benthic diatoms: a study on aquatic islands	HYDROBIOLOGIA	The question of how species richness depends on the area is one of the most intensively studied subjects in biogeography. Many studies have reported this pattern for terrestrial and macroscopic taxa; however, microscopic and aquatic communities have received much less attention in the literature. The aim of our study was to reveal the relationship between the habitat size and richness of freshwater benthic diatom assemblages. We hypothesized that if the size of studied water bodies covers wide spatial scales, the species-area relationship (SAR) could be described by a sigmoid model. Benthic diatom assemblages were investigated in pools, ponds and lakes of various sizes (10(-2)-10(8) m(2)). We demonstrated that although the SAR in the log-log space can be described by a linear model, the linear breakpoint regression provides better fit to data. Using this technique a characteristic small island effect (SIE) could be distinguished. The SIE fell in the range of 10(-2)-10(4) m(2). We also demonstrated that species richness of the diatom guilds is remarkably different in the various size ranges of the water bodies. We also demonstrated that the slope of the SAR (z value) is similar to those values that have been reported for other microbial organisms.	2016	764	10.1007/s10750-015-2278-1	MAYBE	Dave	
Santos JBO; Silva LHS; Branco CWC; Huszar VLM	The roles of environmental conditions and geographical distances on the species turnover of the whole phytoplankton and zooplankton communities and their subsets in tropical reservoirs	HYDROBIOLOGIA	Understanding the patterns of biological diversity between different regions (beta diversity) and how diversity is generated and maintained is a central goal in ecology. The relative roles of niche differentiation and geographical distances in shaping the phytoplankton and zooplankton structures are not yet fully determined, especially considering the subsets of species that share particular traits. We evaluated whether dissimilarity in phytoplankton and zooplankton assemblages depends on environmental distances and geographical distances on the whole communities and for subsets. We sampled eight hydroelectric reservoirs over a large scale (1500 km) in central Brazil, during three climatological periods. Phytoplankton composition was correlated with niche differentiation; that is, environmental similarity would account for assemblage similarity, due to the high dispersal abilities and low turnover rates of these organisms. For zooplankton, geographical distances were more important, which resulted in a stronger spatial structure with a greater dispersal limitation. For phytoplankton, the Morphologically Based Functional Group formed by diatoms, and for zooplankton, the three major taxonomic groups appeared as spatially structured. Therefore, phytoplankton composition was mostly correlated to niche differentiation and zooplankton to geographical distances; the communities deconstructed into subsets of species with similar traits refined the responses of the community structures.	2016	764	10.1007/s10750-015-2296-z	YES	Dave	
Savio D; Sinclair L; Ijaz UZ; Parajka J; Reischer GH; Stadler P; Blaschke AP; Bloschl G; Mach RL; Kirschner AKT; Farnleitner AH; Eiler A	Bacterial diversity along a 2600 km river continuum	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	The bacterioplankton diversity in large rivers has thus far been under-sampled despite the importance of streams and rivers as components of continental landscapes. Here, we present a comprehensive dataset detailing the bacterioplankton diversity along the midstream of the Danube River and its tributaries. Using 16S rRNA-gene amplicon sequencing, our analysis revealed that bacterial richness and evenness gradually declined downriver in both the free-living and particle-associated bacterial communities. These shifts were also supported by beta diversity analysis, where the effects of tributaries were negligible in regards to the overall variation. In addition, the river was largely dominated by bacteria that are commonly observed in freshwaters. Dominated by the acI lineage, the freshwater SAR11 (LD12) and the Polynucleobacter group, typical freshwater taxa increased in proportion downriver and were accompanied by a decrease in soil and groundwater-affiliated bacteria. Based on views of the meta-community and River Continuum Concept, we interpret the observed taxonomic patterns and accompanying changes in alpha and beta diversity with the intention of laying the foundation for a unified concept for river bacterioplankton diversity.	2015	17	10.1111/1462-2920.12886	MAYBE	Dave	
Wang XB; Van Nostrand JD; Deng Y; Lu XT; Wang C; Zhou JZ; Han XG	Scale-dependent effects of climate and geographic distance on bacterial diversity patterns across northern Chinas grasslands	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Patterns of variation in plant and animal diversity along precipitation gradients have been extensively studied, but much less is known about how and to what extent precipitation affects the biogeographic distribution of microbial diversity in arid areas across large spatial scales. Here we collected soils from 54 sites along a 3700 km transect covering a wide range of grassland ecosystems with distinct aridity gradients. We quantified the bacterial community diversity and the effects of climate, edaphic parameter and geographic distance on the bacterial community structure using high-throughput 16S rRNA gene sequencing. Of the 35 phyla detected, 6 were dominant: Actinobacteria, Acidobacteria, Alphaproteobacteria, Deltaproteobacteria, Bacteroidetes and Planctomycetes. Aridity was a major factor influencing bacterial diversity, community composition and taxon abundance. Although the pattern of bacterial species richness is markedly different from that of plant species richness, most soil bacteria were endemic to particular bioregions like macro-organisms. Community similarity significantly declined with environmental distance and geographic distance (r = -0.579 and -0.773, respectively). Geographic distance (historical contingencies) contributed more to bacterial community variation (36.02%) than combined environmental factors (24.06%). Overall, our results showed that geographic distance and climatic factors concurrently govern bacterial biogeographic patterns in arid and semi-arid grassland.	2015	91	10.1093/femsec/fiv133	YES	Dave	
Cerqueira T; Pinho D; Egas C; Froufe H; Altermark B; Candeias C; Santos RS; Bettencourt R	Microbial diversity in deep-sea sediments from the Menez Gwen hydrothermal vent system of the Mid-Atlantic Ridge	MARINE GENOMICS	Deep-sea hydrothermal sediments are known to support remarkably diverse microbial consortia. Culture-independent sequence-based technologies have extensively been used to disclose the associated microbial diversity as most of the microorganisms inhabiting these ecosystems remain uncultured. Here we provide the first description of the microbial community diversity found on sediments from Menez Gwen vent system. We compared hydrothermally influenced sediments, retrieved from an active vent chimney at 812 m depth, with non-hydrothermally influenced sediments, from a 1400 m depth bathyal plain. Considering the enriched methane and sulfur composition of Menez Gwen vent fluids, and the sediment physicochemical properties in each sampled area, we hypothesized that the site-associated microbes would be different. To address this question, taxonomic profiles of bacterial, archaeal and micro-eukaiyotic representatives were studied by rRNA gene tag pyrosequencing. Communities were shown to be significantly different and segregated by sediment geographical area. Specific mesophilic, thermophilic and hyperthermophilic archaeal (e.g., Archaeoglobus, ANME-1) and bacterial (e.g., Caldithrix, Thermodesulfobacteria) taxa were highly abundant near the vent chimney. In contrast, bathyal-associated members affiliated to more ubiquitous phylogroups from deep-ocean sediments (e.g., Thaumarchaeota MGI, Gamma- and Alphaproteobacteria). This study provides a broader picture of the biological diversity and microbial biogeography, and represents a preliminary approach to the microbial ecology associated with the deep-sea sediments from the Menez Gwen hydrothermal vent field. (c) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2015	24	10.1016/j.margen.2015.09.001	MAYBE	Dave	
Liu Q; Zhou YG; Xin YH	High diversity and distinctive community structure of bacteria on glaciers in China revealed by 454 pyrosequencing	SYSTEMATIC AND APPLIED MICROBIOLOGY	The bacterial diversity, community structure and preliminary microbial biogeographic pattern were assessed on glacier surfaces, including three northern glaciers (cold glaciers) and three southern glaciers (temperate glaciers) in China that experienced distinct climatic conditions. Pyrosequencing revealed that bacterial diversities were surprisingly high. With respect to operational taxonomic units (OTUs), Proteobacteria was the most dominant phylum on the glacier surfaces, especially Betaproteobacteria. Significant differences of the bacterial communities were observed between northern and southern glacier surfaces. The rare and abundant populations showed similar clustering patterns to the whole community. The analysis of the culturable bacterial compositions from four glaciers supported this conclusion. Redundancy analysis (RDA) and partial Mantel tests indicated that annual mean temperature, as well as geographical distance, was significantly correlated with the bacterial communities on the glaciers. It was inferred that bacterial communities on northern and southern glacier surfaces experienced different climate, water and nutrient patterns, and consequently evolved different lifestyles. (C) 2015 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.	2015	38	10.1016/j.syapm.2015.09.005	YES	Dave	
Ross AA; Neufeld JD	Microbial biogeography of a university campus	MICROBIOME	Background: Microorganisms are distributed on surfaces within homes, workplaces, and schools, with the potential to impact human health and disease. University campuses represent a unique opportunity to explore the distribution of microorganisms within built environments because of high human population densities, throughput, and variable building usage. For example, the main campus of the University of Waterloo spans four square kilometres, hosts over 40,000 individuals daily, and is comprised of a variety of buildings, including lecture halls, gyms, restaurants, residences, and a daycare. Results: Representative left and right entrance door handles from each of the 65 buildings at the University of Waterloo were swabbed at three time points during an academic term in order to determine if microbial community assemblages coincided with building usage and whether these communities are stable temporally. Across all door handles, the dominant phyla were Proteobacteria, Firmicutes, Actinobacteria, and Bacteroidetes, which comprised 89.0 % of all reads. A total of 713 genera were observed, 16 of which constituted a minimum of 1 % of the 2,458,094 classified and rarefied reads. Archaea were found in low abundance (similar to 0.03 %) but were present on 42.8 % of the door handles on 96 % of buildings across all time points, indicating that they are ubiquitous at very low levels on door handle surfaces. Although inter- handle variability was high, several individual building entrances harbored distinct microbial communities that were consistent over time. The presence of visible environmental debris on a subset of handles was associated with distinct microbial communities (beta diversity), increased richness (alpha diversity), and higher biomass (adenosine 5-triphosphate; ATP). Conclusions: This study demonstrates highly variable microbial communities associated with frequently contacted door handles on a university campus. Nonetheless, the data also revealed several building-specific and temporally stable bacterial and archaeal community patterns, with a potential impact of accumulated debris, a possible result of low human throughput, on detected microbial communities.	2015	3	10.1186/s40168-015-0135-0	YES	Dave	
Burns KN; Kluepfel DA; Strauss SL; Bokulich NA; Cantu D; Steenwerth KL	Vineyard soil bacterial diversity and composition revealed by 16S rRNA genes: Differentiation by geographic features	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	Here, we examine soil-borne microbial biogeography as a function of the features that define an American Viticultural Area (AVA), a geographically delimited American wine grape-growing region, defined for its distinguishing features of climate, geology, soils, physical features (topography and water), and elevation. In doing so, we lay a foundation upon which to link the terroir of wine back to the soilborne microbial communities. The objective of this study is to elucidate the hierarchy of drivers of soil bacterial community structure in wine grape vineyards in Napa Valley, California. We measured differences in the soil bacterial and archaeal community composition and diversity by sequencing the fourth variable region of the small subunit ribosomal RNA gene (165 V4 rDNA). Soil bacterial communities were structured with respect to soil properties and AVA, demonstrating the complexity of soil microbial biogeography at the landscape scale and within the single land-use type. Location and edaphic variables that distinguish AVAs were the strongest explanatory factors for soil microbial community structure. Notably, the relationship with TC and TN of the <53 mu m and 53-250 mu m soil fractions offers support for the role of bacterial community structure rather than individual taxa on fine soil organic matter content. We reason that AVA, climate, and topography each affect soil microbial communities through their suite of impacts on soil properties. The identification of distinctive soil microbial communities associated with a given AVA lends support to the idea that soil microbial communities form a key in linking wine terroir back to the biotic components of the soil environment, suggesting that the relationship between soil microbial communities and wine terroir should be examined further. (C) Published by Elsevier Ltd.	2015	91	10.1016/j.soilbio.2015.09.002	MAYBE	Dave	
Yang J; Li XY; Huang LQ; Jiang HC	Actinobacterial Diversity in the Sediments of Five Cold Springs on the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	The actinobacterial diversity was investigated in the sediments of five cold springs in Wuli region on the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau using 16S rRNA gene phylogenetic analysis. The actinobacterial communities of the studied cold springs were diverse and the obtained actinobacterial operational taxonomic units were classified into 12 actinobacterial orders (e.g., Acidimicrobiales, Corynebacteriales, Gaiellales, Geodermatophilales, diangellales, Kineosporiales, Micromonosporales, Micrococcales, Nakarnurellales, Propionibacteriales, Pseudonocardiales, Streptornycetales) and unclassified Actinobacteria. The actinobacterial composition varied among the investigated cold springs and were significantly correlated (r = 0.748, P = 0.021) to environmental variables. The actinobacterial communities in the cold springs were more diverse than other cold habitats on the Tibetan Plateau, and their compositions showed unique geographical distribution characteristics. Statistical analyses showed that biogeographical isolation and unique environmental conditions might be major factors influencing actinobacterial distribution among the investigated cold springs.	2015	6	10.3389/fmicb.2015.01345	MAYBE	Dave	
Docherty KM; Borton HM; Espinosa N; Gebhardt M; Gil-Loaiza J; Gutknecht JLM; Maes PW; Mott BM; Parnell JJ; Purdy G; Rodrigues PAP; Stanish LF; Walser ON; Gallery RE	Key Edaphic Properties Largely Explain Temporal and Geographic Variation in Soil Microbial Communities across Four Biomes	PLOS ONE	Soil microbial communities play a critical role in nutrient transformation and storage in all ecosystems. Quantifying the seasonal and long-term temporal extent of genetic and functional variation of soil microorganisms in response to biotic and abiotic changes within and across ecosystems will inform our understanding of the effect of climate change on these processes. We examined spatial and seasonal variation in microbial communities based on 16S rRNA gene sequencing and phospholipid fatty acid (PLFA) composition across four biomes: a tropical broadleaf forest (Hawaii), taiga (Alaska), semiarid grassland-shrubland (Utah), and a subtropical coniferous forest (Florida). In this study, we used a team-based instructional approach leveraging the iPlant Collaborative to examine publicly available National Ecological Observatory Network (NEON) 16S gene and PLFA measurements that quantify microbial diversity, composition, and growth. Both profiling techniques revealed that microbial communities grouped strongly by ecosystem and were predominately influenced by three edaphic factors: pH, soil water content, and cation exchange capacity. Temporal variability of microbial communities differed by profiling technique; 16S-based community measurements showed significant temporal variability only in the subtropical coniferous forest communities, specifically through changes within subgroups of Acidobacteria. Conversely, PLFA-based community measurements showed seasonal shifts in taiga and tropical broadleaf forest systems. These differences may be due to the premise that 16S-based measurements are predominantly influenced by large shifts in the abiotic soil environment, while PLFA-based analyses reflect the metabolically active fraction of the microbial community, which is more sensitive to local disturbances and biotic interactions.	2015	10	10.1371/journal.pone.0135352	MAYBE	Dave	
Huszar VLM; Nabout JC; Appel MO; Santos JBO; Abe DS; Silva LHS	Environmental and not spatial processes (directional and non-directional) shape the phytoplankton composition and functional groups in a large subtropical river basin	JOURNAL OF PLANKTON RESEARCH	Despite wide knowledge of environment-community relationships in inland waters, the relative effects of niche conditions (environment) and dispersal (space) on microorganism communities remain controversial. In lotic waters, non-directional processes (i.e. overland dispersal) and the unidirectional connectivity among sites control species distributions along a gradient. We aimed to detect phytoplankton biogeographical patterns in a large subtropical river (Uruguay River, 1150 km, Brazil) and to isolate the contributions of the environment (limnology, climate and topography) and space in shaping community structure. Phytoplankton (total and functional groups) and abiotic variables were sampled from a hydroplane in motion. To detect biogeographical patterns, we used Mantels correlation test, and to evaluate the relative roles of environment and space, we used partial redundancy analysis with non-directional symmetrical and directional asymmetrical approaches. Similarity in phytoplankton composition decreased with distance, but only environment significantly explained this pattern. Space was not significant, considering non-directional and directional processes. Phytoplankton communities considering both individual species and their functional groups were more similar between closer sites, because niche conditions play the main role in shaping phytoplankton, not because dispersal is favored among nearby communities. The species-sorting model, based mostly on niche theory, was the main metacommunity mechanism for phytoplankton communities in this river basin.	2015	37	10.1093/plankt/fbv084	YES	Dave	
Wang YM; Liu LM; Chen HH; Yang J	Spatiotemporal dynamics and determinants of planktonic bacterial and microeukaryotic communities in a Chinese subtropical river	APPLIED MICROBIOLOGY AND BIOTECHNOLOGY	The spatiotemporal distribution of microbial diversity, community composition, and their major drivers are fundamental issues in microbial ecology. In this study, the planktonic bacterial and microeukaryotic communities of the Jiulong River were investigated across both wet and dry seasons by using denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE). We found evidence of temporal change between wet and dry seasons and distinct spatial patterns of bacterial and microeukaryotic communities. Both bacterial and microeukaryotic communities were strongly correlated with temperature, NH4-N, PO4-P, and chlorophyll a, and these environmental factors were significant but incomplete predictors of microbial community composition. Local environmental factors combined with spatial and temporal factors strongly controlled both bacterial and microeukaryotic communities in complex ways, whereas the direct influence of spatial and temporal factors appeared to be relatively small. Path analysis revealed that the microeukaryotic community played key roles in shaping bacterial community composition, perhaps through grazing effects and multiple interactions. Both Betaproteobacteria and Actinobacteria were the most dominant and diverse taxa in bacterial communities, while the microeukaryotic communities were dominated by Ciliophora (zooplankton) and Chlorophyta (phytoplankton). Our results demonstrated that both bacterial and microeukaryotic communities along the Jiulong River displayed a distinct spatiotemporal pattern; however, microeukaryotic communities exhibited a stronger distance-decay relationship than bacterial communities and their spatial patterns were mostly driven by local environmental variables rather than season or spatial processes of the river. Therefore, we have provided baseline data to support further research on river microbial food webs and integrating different microbial groups into river models.	2015	99	10.1007/s00253-015-6773-0	YES	Dave	
Ruiz-Gonzalez C; Nino-Garcia JP; del Giorgio PA	Terrestrial origin of bacterial communities in complex boreal freshwater networks	ECOLOGY LETTERS	Bacteria inhabiting boreal freshwaters are part of metacommunities where local assemblages are often linked by the flow of water in the landscape, yet the resulting spatial structure and the boundaries of the network metacommunity have never been explored. Here, we reconstruct the spatial structure of the bacterial metacommunity in a complex boreal aquatic network by determining the taxonomic composition of bacterial communities along the entire terrestrial/aquatic continuum, including soil and soilwaters, headwater streams, large rivers and lakes. We show that the network metacommunity has a directional spatial structure driven by a common terrestrial origin of aquatic communities, which are numerically dominated by taxa recruited from soils. Local community assembly is driven by variations along the hydrological continuum in the balance between mass effects and species sorting of terrestrial taxa, and seems further influenced by priority effects related to the spatial sequence of entry of soil bacteria into the network.	2015	18	10.1111/ele.12499	MAYBE	Dave	
Zwirglmaier K; Keiz K; Engel M; Geist J; Raeder U	Seasonal and spatial patterns of microbial diversity along a trophic gradient in the interconnected lakes of the Osterseen Lake District, Bavaria	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	The Osterseen Lake District in Bavaria consists of 19 small interconnected lakes that exhibit a pronounced trophic gradient from eutrophic to oligotrophic. It therefore presents a unique model system to address ecological questions regarding niche adaptation and Baas Beckings long standing hypothesis of everything is everywhere, but the environment selects. Here, we present the first assessment of the microbial diversity in these lakes. We sampled the lakes in August and December and used 454 pyrosequencing of 16S rRNA amplicons to analyze the microbial diversity. The diversity patterns between lakes and seasons were compared and the bacterial community composition was correlated with key chemical and physical parameters. Distinct patterns of bacterial diversity only emerged at the level of individual OTUs (operational taxonomic units), but not at the level of the major bacterial phyla. This emphasizes the high functional and physiological diversity among bacterial species within a phylum and calls for analysis of biodiversity at the level of OTUs in order to understand fine scale biogeography. We were able to identify a number of cosmopolitan OTUs as well as specialist OTUs that were restricted to certain lakes or seasons, suggesting adaptation to specific ecological niches.	2015	6	10.3389/fmicb.2015.01168	MAYBE	Dave	
Shay PE; Winder RS; Trofymow JA	Nutrient-cycling microbes in coastal Douglas-fir forests: regional-scale correlation between communities, in situ climate, and other factors	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Microbes such as fungi and bacteria play fundamental roles in litter-decay and nutrient-cycling; however, their communities may respond differently than plants to climate change. The structure (diversity, richness, and evenness) and composition of microbial communities in climate transects of mature Douglas-fir stands of coastal British Columbia rainshadow forests was analyzed, in order to assess in situ variability due to different temperature and moisture regimes. We compared denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis profiles of fungi (18S-FF390/FR1), nitrogen-fixing bacteria (NifHuniversal) and ammonia-oxidizing bacteria (AmoA) polymerase chain reaction amplicons in forest floor and mineral soil samples from three transects located at different latitudes, each transect spanning the Coastal Western Hemlock and Douglas-fir biogeoclimatic zones. Composition of microbial communities in both soil layers was related to degree days above 0 degrees C (2725-3489), while pH (3.8-5.5) best explained shifts in community structure. At this spatial scale, climatic conditions were likely to directly or indirectly select for different microbial species while local site heterogeneity influenced community structure. Significant changes in microbial community composition and structure were related to differences as small as 2.47% and 2.55 degrees C in mean annual moisture and temperature variables, respectively. The climatic variables best describing microbial composition changed from one functional group to the next; in general they did not alter community structure. Spatial distance, especially associated with latitude, was also important in accounting for community variability (4-23%); but to a lesser extent than the combined influence of climate and soil characteristics (14-25%). Results suggest that in situ climate can independently account for some patterns of microbial biogeography in coastal Douglas-fir forests. The distribution of up to 43% of nutrientcycling microorganisms detected in forest soils responded to smaller abiotic gradients than host trees.	2015	6	10.3389/fmicb.2015.01097	YES	Dave	
Powell JR; Karunaratne S; Campbell CD; Yao HY; Robinson L; Singh BK	Deterministic processes vary during community assembly for ecologically dissimilar taxa	NATURE COMMUNICATIONS	The continuum hypothesis states that both deterministic and stochastic processes contribute to the assembly of ecological communities. However, the contextual dependency of these processes remains an open question that imposes strong limitations on predictions of community responses to environmental change. Here we measure community and habitat turnover across multiple vertical soil horizons at 183 sites across Scotland for bacteria and fungi, both dominant and functionally vital components of all soils but which differ substantially in their growth habit and dispersal capability. We find that habitat turnover is the primary driver of bacterial community turnover in general, although its importance decreases with increasing isolation and disturbance. Fungal communities, however, exhibit a highly stochastic assembly process, both neutral and non-neutral in nature, largely independent of disturbance. These findings suggest that increased focus on dispersal limitation and biotic interactions are necessary to manage and conserve the key ecosystem services provided by these assemblages.	2015	6	10.1038/ncomms9444	YES	Dave	
Gong J; Shi F; Ma B; Dong J; Pachiadaki M; Zhang XL; Edgcomb VP	Depth shapes alpha- and beta-diversities of microbial eukaryotes in surficial sediments of coastal ecosystems	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Little is known about the relative influence of historic processes and environmental gradients on shaping the diversity of single-celled eukaryotes in marine benthos. By combining pyrosequencing of 18S ribosomal RNA genes with data on multiple environmental factors, we investigated the diversity of microeukaryotes in surficial sediments of three basins of the Yellow Sea Large Marine Ecosystem. A considerable proportion (about 20%) of reads was affiliated with known parasitoid protists. Dinophyta and Ciliophora appeared dominant in terms of relative proportion of reads and operational taxonomic unit (OTU) richness. Overall, OTU richness of benthic microeukaryotes decreased with increasing water depth and decreasing pH. While community composition was significantly different among basins, partial Mantel tests indicated a depth-decay pattern of community similarity, whereby water depth, rather than geographic distance or environment, shaped -diversity of benthic microeukaryotes (including both the abundant and the rare biosphere) on a regional scale. Similar hydrographic and mineralogical factors contributed to the biogeography of both the abundant and the rare OTUs. The trace metal vanadium had a significant effect on the biogeography of the rare biosphere. Our study sheds new light on the composition, diversity patterns and underlying mechanisms of single-celled eukaryote distribution in surficial sediments of coastal oceans.	2015	17	10.1111/1462-2920.12763	YES	Dave	
Wang K; Ye XS; Chen HP; Zhao QF; Hu CJ; He JY; Qian YX; Xiong JB; Zhu JL; Zhang DM	Bacterial biogeography in the coastal waters of northern Zhejiang, East China Sea is highly controlled by spatially structured environmental gradients	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	The underlying mechanisms of microbial community assembly in connective coastal environments are unclear. The coastal water area of northern Zhejiang, East China Sea, is a complex marine ecosystem with multiple environmental gradients, where the distributions and determinants of bacterioplankton communities remain unclear. We collected surface water samples from 95 sites across eight zones in this area for investigating bacterial community with 16S rRNA gene high-throughput sequencing. Bacterial alpha-diversity exhibits strong associations with water chemical parameters and latitude, with 75.5% of variation explained by suspended particle. The composition of dominant phyla can group the sampling sites into four bacterial provinces, and most key discriminant phyla and families/genera of each province strongly associate with specific environmental features, suggesting that local environmental conditions shape the biogeographic provincialism of bacterial taxa. At a broader and finer phylogenetic scale, bacterial beta-diversity is dominantly explained by the shared variation of environmental and spatial factors (63.3%); meanwhile, the environmental determinants of bacterial -diversity generally exhibit spatially structured patterns, suggesting that bacterial assembly in surface water is highly controlled by spatially structured environmental gradients in this area. This study provides evidence for the unique biogeographic pattern of bacterioplankton communities at an entire scale of this marine ecosystem.	2015	17	10.1111/1462-2920.12884	YES	Dave	
Marzinelli EM; Campbell AH; Valdes EZ; Verges A; Nielsen S; Wernberg T; de Bettignies T; Bennett S; Caporaso JG; Thomas T; Steinberg PD	Continental-scale variation in seaweed host-associated bacterial communities is a function of host condition, not geography	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Interactions between hosts and associated microbial communities can fundamentally shape the development and ecology of holobionts, from humans to marine habitat-forming organisms such as seaweeds. In marine systems, planktonic microbial community structure is mainly driven by geography and related environmental factors, but the large-scale drivers of host-associated microbial communities are largely unknown. Using 16S-rRNA gene sequencing, we characterized 260 seaweed-associated bacterial and archaeal communities on the kelp Ecklonia radiata from three biogeographical provinces spanning 10 degrees of latitude and 35 degrees of longitude across the Australian continent. These phylogenetically and taxonomically diverse communities were more strongly and consistently associated with host condition than geographical location or environmental variables, and a core microbial community characteristic of healthy kelps appears to be lost when hosts become stressed. Microbial communities on stressed individuals were more similar to each other among locations than those on healthy hosts. In contrast to biogeographical patterns of planktonic marine microbial communities, host traits emerge as critical determinants of associated microbial community structure of these holobionts, even at a continental scale.	2015	17	10.1111/1462-2920.12972	YES	Dave	
Han D; Ha HK; Hwang CY; Lee BY; Hur HG; Lee YK	Bacterial communities along stratified water columns at the Chukchi Borderland in the western Arctic Ocean	DEEP-SEA RESEARCH PART II-TOPICAL STUDIES IN OCEANOGRAPHY	An expedition of the IBRV ARAON took place in the Arctic Ocean during the summer of 2010. To investigate the hydrographic features and bacterial variations in water columns, we categorized 16 water samples collected from distinct water masses at the Chukchi Borderland in the western Arctic Ocean. Bacterial diversity, relative abundance, and community composition were determined based on a pyrosequencing approach, and their relationship with water mass properties was considered. Alphaproteobacteria (43.2%), Gammaproteobacteria (16.7%), Flavobacteria (13.7%), and Deltaproteobacteria (12.0%) were the most common bacteria found in all samples, and the relative abundance of these predominant taxa represent the population dynamics of bacterial communities in different water masses (from the euphotic to the sub-euphotic zone) in the Arctic Ocean. Furthermore, the relative abundance of Alphaproteobacteria and its subgroup, SARI! group 1, were significantly related to depth change in water columns, suggesting that environmental heterogeneity caused by changes in depth may play an important role in bacterial population dynamics. In this study, bacterial communities in the Arctic Ocean exhibit biogeographic patterns according to the type of water mass. The halocline layer between the Pacific winter water and Atlantic water exhibits a variation in the composition of bacterial communities, which may be influenced by mixing of Pacific winter water and Atlantic water. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2015	120	10.1016/j.dsr2.2015.01.018	MAYBE	Dave	
Sintes E; De Corte D; Ouillon N; Herndl GJ	Macroecological patterns of archaeal ammonia oxidizers in the Atlantic Ocean	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	Macroecological patterns are found in animals and plants, but also in micro-organisms. Macroecological and biogeographic distribution patterns in marine Archaea, however, have not been studied yet. Ammonia-oxidizing Archaea (AOA) show a bipolar distribution (i.e. similar communities in the northernmost and the southernmost locations, separated by distinct communities in the tropical and gyral regions) throughout the Atlantic, detectable from epipelagic to upper bathypelagic layers (<2000m depth). This tentatively suggests an influence of the epipelagic conditions of organic matter production on bathypelagic AOA communities. The AOA communities below 2000m depth showed a less pronounced biogeographic distribution pattern than the upper 2000m water column. Overall, AOA in the surface and deep Atlantic waters exhibit distance-decay relationships and follow the Rapoport rule in a similar way as bacterial communities and macroorganisms. This indicates a major role of environmental conditions in shaping the community composition and assembly (species sorting) and no, or only weak limits for dispersal in the oceanic thaumarchaeal communities. However, there is indication of a different strength of these relationships between AOA and Bacteria, linked to the intrinsic differences between these two domains.	2015	24	10.1111/mec.13365	YES	Dave	
Liu LM; Yang J; Lv H; Yu XQ; Wilkinson DM; Yang J	Phytoplankton Communities Exhibit a Stronger Response to Environmental Changes than Bacterioplankton in Three Subtropical Reservoirs	ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY	The simultaneous analysis of multiple components of ecosystems is crucial for comprehensive studies of environmental changes in aquatic ecosystems, but such studies are rare. In this study, we analyzed simultaneously the bacterioplankton and phytoplankton communities in three Chinese subtropical reservoirs and compared the response of these two components to seasonal environmental changes. Time-lag analysis indicated that the temporal community dynamics of both bacterioplankton and phytoplankton showed significant directional changes, and variance partitioning suggested that the major reason was the gradual improvement of reservoir water quality from middle eutrophic to oligo-mesotrophic levels during the course of our study. In addition, we found a higher level of temporal stability or stochasticity in the bacterioplankton community than in the phytoplankton community. Potential explanations are that traits associated with bacteria, such as high abundance, widespread dispersal, potential for rapid growth rates, and rapid evolutionary adaptation, may underlie the different stability or stochasticity of bacterioplankton and phytoplankton communities to the environmental changes. In addition, the indirect response of bacterioplankton to nitrogen and phosphorus may result in the fact that environmental deterministic selection was stronger for the phytoplankton than for the bacterioplankton communities.	2015	49	10.1021/acs.est.5b02637	MAYBE	Dave	
Hu HW; Zhang LM; Yuan CL; Zheng Y; Wang JT; Chen DL; He JZ	The large-scale distribution of ammonia oxidizers in paddy soils is driven by soil pH, geographic distance, and climatic factors	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Paddy soils distribute widely from temperate to tropical regions, and are characterized by intensive nitrogen fertilization practices in China. Mounting evidence has confirmed the functional importance of ammonia-oxidizing archaea (AOA) and bacteria (AOB) in soil nitrification, but little is known about their biogeographic distribution patterns in paddy ecosystems. Here, we used barcoded pyrosequencing to characterize the effects of climatic, geochemical and spatial factors on the distribution of ammonia oxidizers from 11 representative rice-growing regions (75-1945 km apart) of China. Potential nitrification rates varied greatly by more than three orders of magnitude, and were significantly correlated with the abundances of AOA and AOB. The community composition of ammonia oxidizer was affected by multiple factors, but changes in relative abundances of the major lineages could be best predicted by soil pH. The alpha diversity of AOA and AOB displayed contrasting trends over the gradients of latitude and atmospheric temperature, indicating a possible niche separation between AOA and AOB along the latitude. The Bray-Curtis dissimilarities in ammonia-oxidizing community structure significantly increased with increasing geographical distance, indicating that more geographically distant paddy fields tend to harbor more dissimilar ammonia oxidizers. Variation partitioning analysis revealed that spatial, geochemical and climatic factors could jointly explain majority of the data variation, and were important drivers defining the ecological niches of AOA and AOB. Our findings suggest that both AOA and AOB are of functional importance in paddy soil nitrification, and ammonia oxidizers in paddy ecosystems exhibit large-scale biogeographic patterns shaped by soil pH, geographic distance, and climatic factors.	2015	6	10.3389/fmicb.2015.00938	YES	Dave	
Park JS; Simpson AGB	Diversity of Heterotrophic Protists from Extremely Hypersaline Habitats	PROTIST	Heterotrophic protists (protozoa) are a diverse but understudied component of the biota of extremely hypersaline environments, with few data on molecular diversity within halophile species, and almost nothing known of their biogeographic distribution. We have garnered SSU rRNA gene sequences for several clades of halophilic protozoa from enrichments from waters of >12.5% salinity from Australia, North America, and Europe (6 geographic sites, 25 distinct samples). The small stramenopile Halocafeteria was found at all sites, but phylogenies did not show clear geographic clustering. The ciliate Trimyema was recorded from 6 non-European samples. Phylogenies confirmed a monophyletic halophilic Trimyema group that included possible south-eastern Australian, Western Australian and North American clusters. Several halophilic Heterolobosea were detected, demonstrating that Pleurostomum contains at least three relatively distinct clades, and increasing known continental ranges for Tulamoeba peronaphora and Euplaesiobystra hypersalinica. The unclassified flagellate Palustrimonas, found in one Australian sample, proves to be a novel deep-branching alveolate. These results are consistent with a global distribution of halophilic protozoa groups (similar to morphospecies), but the Trimyema case suggests that is worth testing whether larger forms exhibit biogeographic phylogenetic substructure. The molecular detection/characterization of halophilic protozoa is still far from complete at the clade level, let alone the species level. (C) 2015 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.	2015	166	10.1016/j.protis.2015.06.001	MAYBE	Dave	
Geremia RA; Roy J; Mouhamadou B; Choler P; Bonneville JM	Spatio-temporal variations of alpine soil microbial communities - influences of plants, soil chemistry and biogeographic history	YEAST		2015	32		MAYBE	Dave	
Freedman Z; Zak DR	Soil bacterial communities are shaped by temporal and environmental filtering: evidence from a long-term chronosequence	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Soil microbial communities are abundant, hyper-diverse and mediate global biogeochemical cycles, but we do not yet understand the processes mediating their assembly. Current hypothetical frameworks suggest temporal (e.g. dispersal limitation) and environmental (e.g. soil pH) filters shape microbial community composition; however, there is limited empirical evidence supporting this framework in the hyper-diverse soil environment, particularly at large spatial (i.e. regional to continental) and temporal (i.e. 100 to 1000 years) scales. Here, we present evidence from a long-term chronosequence (4000 years) that temporal and environmental filters do indeed shape soil bacterial community composition. Furthermore, nearly 20 years of environmental monitoring allowed us to control for potentially confounding environmental variation. Soil bacterial communities were phylogenetically distinct across the chronosequence. We determined that temporal and environmental factors accounted for significant portions of bacterial phylogenetic structure using distance-based linear models. Environmental factors together accounted for the majority of phylogenetic structure, namely, soil temperature (19%), pH (17%) and litter carbon:nitrogen (C:N; 17%). However, of all individual factors, time since deglaciation accounted for the greatest proportion of bacterial phylogenetic structure (20%). Taken together, our results provide empirical evidence that temporal and environmental filters act together to structure soil bacterial communities across large spatial and long-term temporal scales.	2015	17	10.1111/1462-2920.12762	MAYBE	Dave	
Pinto C; Pinho D; Cardoso R; Custodio V; Fernandes J; Sousa S; Pinheiro M; Egas C; Gomes AC	Wine fermentation microbiome: a landscape from different Portuguese wine appellations	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Grapes and wine musts harbor a complex microbiome, which plays a crucial role in wine fermentation as it impacts on wine flavour and, consequently, on its final quality and value. Unveiling the microbiome and its dynamics, and understanding the ecological factors that explain such biodiversity, has been a challenge to oenology. In this work, we tackle this using a metagenomics approach to describe the natural microbial communities, both fungal and bacterial microorganisms, associated with spontaneous wine fermentations. For this, the wine microbiome, from six Portuguese wine appellations, was fully characterized as regards to three stages of fermentation - Initial Musts (IM), and Start and End of alcoholic fermentations (SF and EF, respectively). The wine fermentation process revealed a higher impact on fungal populations when compared with bacterial communities, and the fermentation evolution clearly caused a loss of the environmental microorganisms. Furthermore, significant differences (p < 0.05) were found in the fungal populations between IM, SF, and EF, and in the bacterial population between IM and SF. Fungal communities were characterized by either the presence of environmental microorganisms and phytopathogens in the IM, or yeasts associated with alcoholic fermentations in wine must samples as Saccharomyces and non-Saccharomyces yeasts (as Lachancea, Metschnikowia, Hanseniaspora, Hyphopichia, Sporothrix, Candida, and Schizosaccharomyces). Among bacterial communities, the most abundant family was Enterobacteriaceae; though families of species associated with the production of lactic acid (Lactobacillaceae, Leuconostocaceae) and acetic acid (Acetobacteriaceae) were also detected. Interestingly, a biogeographical correlation for both fungal and bacterial communities was identified between wine appellations at IM suggesting that each wine region contains specific and embedded microbial communities which may contribute to the uniqueness of regional wines.	2015	6	10.3389/fmicb.2015.00905	MAYBE	Dave	
Morrison-Whittle P; Goddard MR	Quantifying the relative roles of selective and neutral processes in defining eukaryotic microbial communities	ISME JOURNAL	We have a limited understanding of the relative contributions of different processes that regulate microbial communities, which are crucial components of both natural and agricultural ecosystems. The contributions of selective and neutral processes in defining community composition are often confounded in field studies because as one moves through space, environments also change. Managed ecosystems provide an excellent opportunity to control for this and evaluate the relative strength of these processes by minimising differences between comparable niches separated at different geographic scales. We use next-generation sequencing to characterize the variance in fungal communities inhabiting adjacent fruit, soil and bark in comparable vineyards across 1000 kms in New Zealand. By compartmentalizing community variation, we reveal that niche explains at least four times more community variance than geographic location. We go beyond merely demonstrating that different communities are found in both different niches and locations by quantifying the forces that define these patterns. Overall, selection unsurprisingly predominantly shapes these microbial communities, but we show the balance of neutral processes also have a significant role in defining community assemblage in eukaryotic microbes.	2015	9	10.1038/ismej.2015.18	MAYBE	Dave	
Liu LM; Yang J; Yu Z; Wilkinson DM	The biogeography of abundant and rare bacterioplankton in the lakes and reservoirs of China	ISME JOURNAL	Bacteria play key roles in the ecology of both aquatic and terrestrial ecosystems; however, little is known about their diversity and biogeography, especially in the rare microbial biosphere of inland freshwater ecosystems. Here we investigated aspects of the community ecology and geographical distribution of abundant and rare bacterioplankton using high-throughput sequencing and examined the relative influence of local environmental variables and regional (spatial) factors on their geographical distribution patterns in 42 lakes and reservoirs across China. Our results showed that the geographical patterns of abundant and rare bacterial subcommunities were generally similar, and both of them showed a significant distance-decay relationship. This suggests that the rare bacterial biosphere is not a random assembly, as some authors have assumed, and that its distribution is most likely subject to the same ecological processes that control abundant taxa. However, we identified some differences between the abundant and rare groups as both groups of bacteria showed a significant positive relationship between sites occupancy and abundance, but the abundant bacteria exhibited a weaker distance-decay relationship than the rare bacteria. Our results implied that rare subcommunities were mostly governed by local environmental variables, whereas the abundant subcommunities were mainly affected by regional factors. In addition, both local and regional variables that were significantly related to the spatial variation of abundant bacterial community composition were different to those of rare ones, suggesting that abundant and rare bacteria may have discrepant ecological niches and may play different roles in natural ecosystems.	2015	9	10.1038/ismej.2015.29	YES	Dave	
Thomson BC; Tisserant E; Plassart P; Uroz S; Griffiths RI; Hannula SE; Buee M; Mougel C; Ranjard L; Van Veen JA; Martin F; Bailey MJ; Lemanceau P	Soil conditions and land use intensification effects on soil microbial communities across a range of European field sites	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	Intensive land use practices necessary for providing food and raw materials are known to have a deleterious effect on soil. However, the effects that such practices have on soil microbes are less well understood. To investigate the effects of land use intensification on soil microbial communities we used a combined T-RFLP and pyrosequencing approach to study bacteria, archaea and fungi in spring and autumn at five long term observatories (LTOs) in Europe; each with a particular land use type and contrasting levels of intensification (low and high). Generally, due to large gradients in soil variables, both molecular methods revealed that soil microbial communities were structured according to differences in soil conditions between the LTOs, more so than land use intensity. Moreover, variance partitioning analysis also showed that soil properties better explained the differences in microbial communities than land use intensity effects. Predictable responses in dominant bacterial, archaeal and fungal taxa to edaphic conditions (e.g. soil pH and resource availability) were apparent between the LTOs. Some effects of land use intensification at individual field sites were observed. However, these effects were manifest when land use change affected soil conditions. Uniquely, this study details the responses of different microbial groups to soil type and land use intensification, and their relative importance across a range of European field sites. These findings reinforce our understanding of drivers impacting soil microbial community structure at both field and larger geographic scales. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2015	88	10.1016/j.soilbio.2015.06.012	MAYBE	Dave	
Davison J; Moora M; Ouml;pik M; Adholeya A; Ainsaar L; Ba A; Burla S; Diedhiou AG; Hiiesalu I; Jairus T; Johnson NC; Kane A; Koorem K; Kochar M; Ndiaye C; Partel M; Reier U; Saks U; Singh R; Vasar M; Zobel M	Global assessment of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus diversity reveals very low endemism	SCIENCE	The global biogeography of microorganisms remains largely unknown, in contrast to the well-studied diversity patterns of macroorganisms. We used arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungus DNA from 1014 plant-root samples collected worldwide to determine the global distribution of these plant symbionts. We found that AM fungal communities reflected local environmental conditions and the spatial distance between sites. However, despite AM fungi apparently possessing limited dispersal ability, we found 93% of taxa on multiple continents and 34% on all six continents surveyed. This contrasts with the high spatial turnover of other fungal taxa and with the endemism displayed by plants at the global scale. We suggest that the biogeography of AM fungi is driven by unexpectedly efficient dispersal, probably via both abiotic and biotic vectors, including humans.	2015	349	10.1126/science.aab1161	MAYBE	Dave	
Stoof-Leichsenring KR; Herzschuh U; Pestryakova LA; Klemm J; Epp LS; Tiedemann R	Genetic data from algae sedimentary DNA reflect the influence of environment over geography	SCIENTIFIC REPORTS	Genetic investigations on eukaryotic plankton confirmed the existence of modern biogeographic patterns, but analyses of palaeoecological data exploring the temporal variability of these patterns have rarely been presented. Ancient sedimentary DNA proved suitable for investigations of past assemblage turnover in the course of environmental change, but genetic relatedness of the identified lineages has not yet been undertaken. Here, we investigate the relatedness of diatom lineages in Siberian lakes along environmental gradients (i.e. across treeline transects), over geographic distance and through time (i.e. the last 7000 years) using modern and ancient sedimentary DNA. Our results indicate that closely-related Staurosira lineages occur in similar environments and less-related lineages in dissimilar environments, in our case different vegetation and co-varying climatic and limnic variables across treeline transects. Thus our study reveals that environmental conditions rather than geographic distance is reflected by diatom-relatedness patterns in space and time. We tentatively speculate that the detected relatedness pattern in Staurosira across the treeline could be a result of adaptation to diverse environmental conditions across the arctic boreal treeline, however, a geographically-driven divergence and subsequent repopulation of ecologically different habitats might also be a potential explanation for the observed pattern.	2015	5	10.1038/srep12924	YES	Dave	
Hug LA; Thomas BC; Brown CT; Frischkorn KR; Williams KH; Tringe SG; Banfield JF	Aquifer environment selects for microbial species cohorts in sediment and groundwater	ISME JOURNAL	Little is known about the biogeography or stability of sediment-associated microbial community membership because these environments are biologically complex and generally difficult to sample. High-throughput-sequencing methods provide new opportunities to simultaneously genomically sample and track microbial community members across a large number of sampling sites or times, with higher taxonomic resolution than is associated with 16 S ribosomal RNA gene surveys, and without the disadvantages of primer bias and gene copy number uncertainty. We characterized a sediment community at 5m depth in an aquifer adjacent to the Colorado River and tracked its most abundant 133 organisms across 36 different sediment and groundwater samples. We sampled sites separated by centimeters, meters and tens of meters, collected on seven occasions over 6 years. Analysis of 1.4 terabase pairs of DNA sequence showed that these 133 organisms were more consistently detected in saturated sediments than in samples from the vadose zone, from distant locations or from groundwater filtrates. Abundance profiles across aquifer locations and from different sampling times identified organism cohorts that comprised subsets of the 133 organisms that were consistently associated. The data suggest that cohorts are partly selected for by shared environmental adaptation.	2015	9	10.1038/ismej.2015.2	MAYBE	Dave	
Hu AY; Hou LY; Yu CP	Biogeography of Planktonic and Benthic Archaeal Communities in a Subtropical Eutrophic Estuary of China	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Mounting evidence suggests that Archaea are widespread and abundant in aquatic and terrestrial habitats and play fundamental roles in global biogeochemical cycles, yet the pattern and its ecological drivers of biogeographic distribution of archaeal community in estuarine ecosystem are still not well understood. Here, we investigated planktonic and benthic archaeal communities in the human-impacted Jiulong River estuary (JRE), southern China by using real-time PCR (RT-PCR) and Illumina 16S ribosomal RNA (rRNA) amplicon sequencing. RT-PCR analysis indicated that Archaea accounted for an average of 0.79 and 5.31 % of prokaryotic biomass in water and sediment samples of the JRE, respectively. The diversity of planktonic archaeal community decreased gradually from the river runoff to seawater, whereas that of benthic community did not show the similar pattern. The results of taxonomic assignments indicated that Thaumarchaeota (Nitrosopumilus and Cenarchaeum), Methanocorpusculum, and Methanospirillum were significantly more abundant in planktonic than benthic communities, whereas the relative abundances of Miscellaneous Crenarchaeotic Group, Marine Benthic Group-B/-D, anaerobic methane-oxidizing Archaea -1/-2D, and South Africa Gold Mine Euryarchaeotic Group 1 were higher in sediments than in surface waters. Moreover, planktonic archaeal community composition varied significantly at broad and finer-scale taxonomic levels along the salinity gradient. Multivariate statistical analyses revealed that salinity is the main factor structuring the JRE planktonic but not benthic archaeal community at both total community and population level. SourceTrakcer analysis indicated that river might be a major source of archaea in the freshwater zone of the JRE. Overall, this study advances our understanding of the biogeographic patterns and its ecological drivers of estuarine archaeal communities.	2015	70	10.1007/s00248-015-0597-4	MAYBE	Dave	
Hargreaves SK; Williams RJ; Hofmockel KS	Environmental Filtering of Microbial Communities in Agricultural Soil Shifts with Crop Growth	PLOS ONE	Plant and soil properties cooperatively structure soil microbial communities, with implications for ecosystem functioning. However, the extent to which each factor contributes to community structuring is not fully understood. To quantify the influence of plants and soil properties on microbial diversity and composition in an agricultural context, we conducted an experiment within a corn-based annual cropping system and a perennial switchgrass cropping system across three topographic positions. We sequenced barcoded 16S ribosomal RNA genes from whole soil three times throughout a single growing season and across two years in July. To target the belowground effects of plants, we also sampled rhizosphere soil in July. We hypothesized that microbial community alpha-diversity and composition (beta-diversity) would be more sensitive to cropping system effects (annual vs. perennial inputs) than edaphic differences among topographic positions, with greater differences occurring in the rhizosphere compared to whole soil. We found that microbial community composition consistently varied with topographic position, and cropping system and the rhizosphere influenced alpha-diversity. In July, cropping system and rhizosphere structured a small but specific group of microbes implying a subset of microbial taxa, rather than broad shifts in community composition, may explain previously observed differences in resource cycling between treatments. Using rank abundance analysis, we detected enrichment of Saprospirales and Actinomycetales, including cellulose and chitin degraders, in the rhizosphere soil and enrichment of Nitrospirales, Syntrophobacterales, and MND1 in the whole soil. Overall, these findings support environmental filtering for the soil microbial community first by soil and second by the rhizosphere. Across cropping systems, plants selected for a general rhizosphere community with evidence for plant-specific effects related to time of sampling.	2015	10	10.1371/journal.pone.0134345	MAYBE	Dave	
Liu L; Hart MM; Zhang JL; Cai XB; Gai JP; Christie P; Li XL; Klironomos JN	Altitudinal distribution patterns of AM fungal assemblages in a Tibetan alpine grassland	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	A better understanding of biogeography of Glomeromycota is essential for the conservation of arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungal species and the ecosystem services that they provide worldwide. We examined the spatial dynamics of AM fungi along two slopes (4149 m a.s.l. to the summit at 5033 m a.s.l.) of Mount Mila on the Tibetan Plateau. Our hypothesis was that AM fungal communities at higher elevation would show distinct assemblages with lower diversity in conditions of increasing environmental harshness. A total of 52 operational taxonomic units (OTUs) spanning all four orders were detected and some OTUs were habitat specific. Nearly 30% of the OTUs were new phylotypes, including two family-like clades. Distinct communities of AM fungi were found at the higher elevation, demonstrating potential niche differentiation along the elevation gradient. Elevation patterns of taxon richness/diversity differed between the two transects, decreasing with increasing elevation on the eastern slope and being unimodal (or lacking a pattern) on the western slope. Taken together, our findings provide evidence of a significant spatial structure of AM fungi across the elevation gradient, with the distribution patterns of these fungi regulated simultaneously by the plant communities, soil properties and climatic conditions in this plateau montane ecosystem.	2015	91	10.1093/femsec/fiv078	MAYBE	Dave	
Souffreau C; Van der Gucht K; van Gremberghe I; Kosten S; Lacerot G; Lobao LM; Huszar VLD; Roland F; Jeppesen E; Vyverman W; De Meester L	Environmental rather than spatial factors structure bacterioplankton communities in shallow lakes along a > 6000km latitudinal gradient in South America	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Metacommunity studies on lake bacterioplankton indicate the importance of environmental factors in structuring communities. Yet most of these studies cover relatively small spatial scales. We assessed the relative importance of environmental and spatial factors in shaping bacterioplankton communities across a >6000km latitudinal range, studying 48 shallow lowland lakes in the tropical, tropicali (isothermal subzone of the tropics) and tundra climate regions of South America using denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis. Bacterioplankton community composition (BCC) differed significantly across regions. Although a large fraction of the variation in BCC remained unexplained, the results supported a consistent significant contribution of local environmental variables and to a lesser extent spatial variables, irrespective of spatial scale. Upon correction for space, mainly biotic environmental factors significantly explained the variation in BCC. The abundance of pelagic cladocerans remained particularly significant, suggesting grazer effects on bacterioplankton communities in the studied lakes. These results confirm that bacterioplankton communities are predominantly structured by environmental factors, even over a large-scale latitudinal gradient (6026km), and stress the importance of including biotic variables in studies that aim to understand patterns in BCC.	2015	17	10.1111/1462-2920.12692	YES	Dave	
Wang YM; Yang J; Liu LMA; Yu Z	Quantifying the effects of geographical and environmental factors on distribution of stream bacterioplankton within nature reserves of Fujian, China	ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE AND POLLUTION RESEARCH	Bacterioplankton are important components of freshwater ecosystems and play essential roles in ecological functions and processes; however, little is known about their geographical distribution and the factors influencing their ecology, especially in stream ecosystems. To examine how geographical and environmental factors affect the composition of bacterioplankton communities, we used denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis and clone sequencing to survey bacterioplankton communities in 31 samples of streamwater from seven nature reserves in Fujian province, southeast China. Our results revealed that dominant bacterioplankton communities exhibited a distinct geographical pattern. Further, we provided evidence for distance decay relationships in bacterioplankton community similarity and found similar community gradients in response to elevation and latitude. Both redundancy analyses and Mantel tests showed that bacterioplankton community composition was significantly correlated with both environmental (electrical conductivity, total phosphorus, and PO4-P) and geographical factors (latitude, longitude, and elevation). Variance partitioning further showed that the joint effect of geographical and environmental factors explained the largest proportion of the variation in distribution of bacterioplankton communities (13.6 %), followed by purely geographical factors (11.2 %), and purely environmental factors (0.6 %). The Betaproteobacteria were the most common taxa in the streams, followed by Firmicutes and Gammaproteobacteria. Therefore, our results suggest that the biogeographical patterns of stream bacterioplankton communities across the Fujian nature reserves are more influenced by geographical factors than by local physicochemical properties.	2015	22	10.1007/s11356-015-4308-y	YES	Dave	
Liu JW; Liu XS; Wang M; Qiao YL; Zheng YF; Zhang XH	Bacterial and Archaeal Communities in Sediments of the North Chinese Marginal Seas	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Microbial communities of the Chinese marginal seas have rarely been reported. Here, bacterial and archaeal community structures and abundance in the surface sediment of four sea areas including the Bohai Sea (BS), North Yellow Sea (NYS), South Yellow Sea (SYS), and the north East China Sea (NECS) were surveyed by 16S ribosomal RNA (rRNA) gene pyrosequencing and quantitative PCR. The results showed that microbial communities of the four geographic areas were distinct from each other at the operational taxonomic unit (OTU) level, whereas the microbial communities of the BS, NYS, and SYS were more similar to each other than to the NECS at higher taxonomic levels. Across all samples, Bacteria were numerically dominant relative to Archaea, and among them, Gammaproteobacteria and Euryarchaeota were predominant in the BS, NYS, and SYS, while Deltaproteobacteria and Thaumarchaeota were prevalent in the NECS. The most abundant bacterial genera were putative sulfur oxidizer and sulfate reducer, suggesting that sulfur cycle processes might prevail in these areas, and the high abundance of dsrB (10(7)-10(8) copies g(-1)) in all sites verified the dominance of sulfate reducer in the north Chinese marginal seas. The differences in sediment sources among the sampling areas were potential explanations for the observed microbial community variations. Furthermore, temperature and dissolved oxygen of bottom water were significant environmental factors in determining both bacterial and archaeal communities, whereas chlorophyll a in sediment was significant only in structuring archaeal community. This study presented an outline of benthic microbial communities and provided insights into understanding the biogeochemical cycles in sediments of the north Chinese marginal seas.	2015	70	10.1007/s00248-014-0553-8	MAYBE	Dave	
Shi Y; Grogan P; Sun HB; Xiong JB; Yang YF; Zhou JZ; Chu HY	Multi-scale variability analysis reveals the importance of spatial distance in shaping Arctic soil microbial functional communities	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	Understanding biological diversity and distribution patterns at multiple spatial scales is a central issue in ecology. Here, we investigated the biogeographical patterns of microbial functional genes in 24 heath soils from across the Arctic using GeoChip-based metagenomics and principal coordinates of neighbour matrices (PCNM)-based analysis. Functional gene richness varied considerably among sites, while the proportions of each major functional gene category were evenly distributed. Functional gene composition varied significantly at most medium to large spatial scales, and the PCNM analyses indicated that 14 20% of the variation in total and major functional gene categories could be attributed primarily to relatively large-scale spatial effects that were consistent with broad-scale variation in soil pH and total nitrogen. The combination of variance partitioning and multi-scales analysis indicated that spatial distance effects accounted for 12% of the total variation in functional gene composition, whereas environmental factors accounted for only 3%. This small but significant influence of spatial variation in determining functional gene distributions contrasts sharply with typical microbial phylotype/species-based biogeographical patterns (including these same Arctic soil samples), which are primarily determined by contemporary environmental heterogeneities. Therefore, our results suggest that historical contingencies such as disturbance events, physical heterogeneities, community interactions or dispersal barriers that occurred in the past, have some significant influence on soil functional gene distribution patterns. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2015	86	10.1016/j.soilbio.2015.03.028	YES	Dave	
Regan KM; Nunan N; Boeddinghaus RS; Baumgartner V; Berner D; Boch S; Oelmann Y; Overmann J; Prati D; Schloter M; Schmitt B; Sorkau E; Steffens M; Kandeler E; Marhan S	Seasonal controls on grassland microbial biogeography: are they governed by plants, abiotic properties or both? (vol 71, pg 21, 2014)	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY		2015	86	10.1016/j.soilbio.2015.03.026	YES	Dave	
Suh SS; Park M; Hwang J; Kil EJ; Jung SW; Lee S; Lee TK	Seasonal Dynamics of Marine Microbial Community in the South Sea of Korea	PLOS ONE	High-resolution 16S rRNA tag pyrosequencing was used to obtain seasonal snapshots of the bacterial diversity and community structure at two locations in Gosung Bay (South Sea, Korea) over a one year period. Seasonal sampling from the water column at each site revealed highly diverse bacterial communities containing up to 900 estimated Operational Taxonomic Units (OTUs). The Alphaproteobacteria and Gammaproteobacteria were the most abundant groups, and the most frequently recorded OTUs were members of Pelagibacter and Glaciecola. In particular, it was observed that Arcobacter, a genus of the Epsilonproteobacteria, dominated during summer. In addition, Psedoalteromonadaceae, Vibrionaceae and SAR11-1 were predominant members of the OTUs found in all sampling seasons. Environmental factors significantly influenced the bacterial community structure among season, with the phosphate and nitrate concentrations contributing strongly to the spatial distribution of the Alphaproteobacteria; the Gammaproteobacteria, Flavobacteria, and Actinobacteria all showed marked negative correlations with all measured nutrients, particularly silicon dioxide and chlorophyll-a. The results suggest that seasonal changes in environmental variables contribute to the dynamic structure of the bacterial community in the study area.	2015	10	10.1371/journal.pone.0131633	MAYBE	Dave	
Tsiknia M; Paranychianakis NV; Varouchakis EA; Nikolaidis NP	Environmental drivers of the distribution of nitrogen functional genes at a watershed scale	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	To date only few studies have dealt with the biogeography of microbial communities at large spatial scales, despite the importance of such information to understand and simulate ecosystem functioning. Herein, we describe the biogeographic patterns of microorganisms involved in nitrogen (N)-cycling (diazotrophs, ammonia oxidizers, denitrifiers) as well as the environmental factors shaping these patterns across the Koiliaris Critical Zone Observatory, a typical Mediterranean watershed. Our findings revealed that a proportion of variance ranging from 40 to 80% of functional genes abundance could be explained by the environmental variables monitored, with pH, soil texture, total organic carbon and potential nitrification rate being identified as the most important drivers. The spatial autocorrelation of N-functional genes ranged from 0.2 to 6.2 km and prediction maps, generated by cokriging, revealed distinct patterns of functional genes. The inclusion of functional genes in statistical modeling substantially improved the proportion of variance explained by the models, a result possibly due to the strong relationships that were identified among microbial groups. Significant relationships were set between functional groups, which were further mediated by land use (natural versus agricultural lands). These relationships, in combination with the environmental variables, allow us to provide insights regarding the ecological preferences of N-functional groups and among them the recently identified clade II of nitrous oxide reducers.	2015	91	10.1093/femsec/fiv052	YES	Dave	
Constancias F; Terrat S; Saby NPA; Horrigue W; Villerd J; Guillemin JP; Biju-Duval L; Nowak V; Dequiedt S; Ranjard L; Prevost-Boure NC	Mapping and determinism of soil microbial community distribution across an agricultural landscape	MICROBIOLOGYOPEN	Despite the relevance of landscape, regarding the spatial patterning of microbial communities and the relative influence of environmental parameters versus human activities, few investigations have been conducted at this scale. Here, we used a systematic grid to characterize the distribution of soil microbial communities at 278 sites across a monitored agricultural landscape of 13km(2). Molecular microbial biomass was estimated by soil DNA recovery and bacterial diversity by 16S rRNA gene pyrosequencing. Geostatistics provided the first maps of microbial community at this scale and revealed a heterogeneous but spatially structured distribution of microbial biomass and diversity with patches of several hundreds of meters. Variance partitioning revealed that both microbial abundance and bacterial diversity distribution were highly dependent of soil properties and land use (total variance explained ranged between 55% and 78%). Microbial biomass and bacterial richness distributions were mainly explained by soil pH and texture whereas bacterial evenness distribution was mainly related to land management. Bacterial diversity (richness, evenness, and Shannon index) was positively influenced by cropping intensity and especially by soil tillage, resulting in spots of low microbial diversity in soils under forest management. Spatial descriptors also explained a small but significant portion of the microbial distribution suggesting that landscape configuration also shapes microbial biomass and bacterial diversity.	2015	4	10.1002/mbo3.255	YES	Dave	
Constancias F; Saby NPA; Terrat S; Dequiedt S; Horrigue W; Nowak V; Guillemin JP; Biju-Duval L; Prevost-Boure N; Ranjard L	Contrasting spatial patterns and ecological attributes of soil bacterial and archaeal taxa across a landscape	MICROBIOLOGYOPEN	Even though recent studies have clarified the influence and hierarchy of environmental filters on bacterial community structure, those constraining bacterial populations variations remain unclear. In consequence, our ability to understand to ecological attributes of soil bacteria and to predict microbial community response to environmental stress is therefore limited. Here, we characterized the bacterial community composition and the various bacterial taxonomic groups constituting the community across an agricultural landscape of 12km(2), by using a 215x215m systematic grid representing 278 sites to precisely decipher their spatial distribution and drivers at this scale. The bacterial and Archaeal community composition was characterized by applying 16S rRNA gene pyrosequencing directly to soil DNA from samples. Geostatistics tools were used to reveal the heterogeneous distribution of bacterial composition at this scale. Soil physical parameters and land management explained a significant amount of variation, suggesting that environmental selection is the major process shaping bacterial composition. All taxa systematically displayed also a heterogeneous and particular distribution patterns. Different relative influences of soil characteristics, land use and space were observed, depending on the taxa, implying that selection and spatial processes might be differentially but not exclusively involved for each bacterial phylum. Soil pH was a major factor determining the distribution of most of the bacterial taxa and especially the most important factor explaining the spatial patterns of -Proteobacteria and Planctomycetes. Soil texture, organic carbon content and quality were more specific to a few number of taxa (e.g., -Proteobacteria and Chlorobi). Land management also influenced the distribution of bacterial taxa across the landscape and revealed different type of response to cropping intensity (positive, negative, neutral or hump-backed relationships) according to phyla. Altogether, this study provided valuable clues about the ecological behavior of soil bacterial and archaeal taxa at an agricultural landscape scale and could be useful for developing sustainable strategies of land management.	2015	4	10.1002/mbo3.256	YES	Dave	
Yang AJ; Zhang XL; Agogue H; Dupuy C; Gong J	Contrasting spatiotemporal patterns and environmental drivers of diversity and community structure of ammonia oxidizers, denitrifiers, and anammox bacteria in sediments of estuarine tidal flats	ANNALS OF MICROBIOLOGY	The spatial and temporal patterns of diversity, community structure, and their drivers are fundamental issues in microbial ecology. This study aimed to investigate the relative importance of spatial and seasonal controls on the distribution of nitrogen cycling microbes in sediments of estuarine tidal flats, and to test the hypothesis that metals impact the distribution of nitrogen-cycling microbes in the coastal system. Two layers of sediment samples were collected from three estuarine tidal flats of Laizhou Bay in 2010 winter and 2011 summer. The alpha diversities (Shannon and Simpson indices) and community structure of ammonia oxidizing bacteria (AOB) and archaea (AOA), denitrifier and anammox bacteria (AMB) were revealed using denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis and clone library analysis of amoA, nosZ and 16S rRNA gene markers. We found that both AOB and AMB exhibited distinct seasonal patterns in either alpha diversity or community turnover; AOA had different alpha diversities in two layers, but neither spatial nor seasonal patterns were found for their community turnover. However, no distinct spatiotemporal pattern was observed for either diversity or community composition of nosZ-type denitrifiers. For correlations between alpha diversities and environmental factors, significant correlations were found between AOB and ammonium, temperature and As, between denitrifiers and nitrite, salinity and Pb, and between AMB and Pb, ratio of organic carbon to nitrogen, ammonium, pH and dissolved oxygen. Salinity and sediment grain size were the most important factors shaping AOB and AOA communities, respectively; whereas AMB community structure was mostly determined by temperature, dissolved oxygen, pH and heavy metals As and Cd. These results stress that ammonia oxidizers, denitrifiers and anammox bacteria have generally different distributional patterns across time and space, and heavy metals might have contributed to their differentiated distributions in coastal sediments.	2015	65	10.1007/s13213-014-0929-5	YES	Dave	
Archer SDJ; McDonald IR; Herbold CW; Lee CK; Cary CS	Benthic microbial communities of coastal terrestrial and ice shelf Antarctic meltwater ponds	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	The numerous perennial meltwater ponds distributed throughout Antarctica represent diverse and productive ecosystems central to the ecological functioning of the surrounding ultra oligotrophic environment. The dominant taxa in the pond benthic communities have been well described however, little is known regarding their regional dispersal and local drivers to community structure. The benthic microbial communities of 12 meltwater ponds in the McMurdo Sound of Antarctica were investigated to examine variation between pond microbial communities and their biogeography. Geochemically comparable but geomorphologically distinct ponds were selected from Bratina Island (ice shelf) and Miers Valley (terrestrial) (<40 km between study sites), and community structure within ponds was compared using DNA fingerprinting and pyrosequencing of 16S rRNA gene amplicons. More than 85% of total sequence reads were shared between pooled benthic communities at different locations (OTU0.05), which in combination with favorable prevailing winds suggests aeolian regional distribution. Consistent with previous findings Proteobacteria and Bacteroidetes were the dominant phyla representing over 50% of total sequences; however, a large number of other phyla (21) were also detected in this ecosystem. Although dominant Bacteria were ubiquitous between ponds, site and local selection resulted in heterogeneous community structures and with more than 45% of diversity being pond specific. Potassium was identified as the most significant contributing factor to the cosmopolitan community structure and aluminum to the location unique community based on a BEST analysis (Spearmans correlation coefficient of 0.632 and 0.806, respectively). These results indicate that the microbial communities in meltwater ponds are easily dispersed regionally and that the local geochemical environment drives the ponds community structure.	2015	6	10.3389/fmicb.2015.00485	MAYBE	Dave	
Stegen JC; Lin XJ; Fredrickson JK; Konopka AE	Estimating and mapping ecological processes influencing microbial community assembly	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Ecological community assembly is governed by a combination of (i) selection resulting from among-taxa differences in performance; (ii) dispersal resulting from organismal movement; and (iii) ecological drift resulting from stochastic changes in population sizes. The relative importance and nature of these processes can vary across environments. Selection can be homogeneous or variable, and while dispersal is a rate, we conceptualize extreme dispersal rates as two categories; dispersal limitation results from limited exchange of organisms among communities, and homogenizing dispersal results from high levels of organism exchange. To estimate the influence and spatial variation of each process we extend a recently developed statistical framework, use a simulation model to evaluate the accuracy of the extended framework, and use the framework to examine subsurface microbial communities over two geologic formations. For each subsurface community we estimate the degree to which it is influenced by homogeneous selection, variable selection, dispersal limitation, and homogenizing dispersal. Our analyses revealed that the relative influences of these ecological processes vary substantially across communities even within a geologic formation. We further identify environmental and spatial features associated with each ecological process, which allowed mapping of spatial variation in ecological-process-influences. The resulting maps provide a new lens through which ecological systems can be understood; in the subsurface system investigated here they revealed that the influence of variable selection was associated with the rate at which redox conditions change with subsurface depth.	2015	6	10.3389/fmicb.2015.00370	YES	Dave	
Terrat S; Dequiedt S; Horrigue W; Lelievre M; Cruaud C; Saby NPA; Jolivet C; Arrouays D; Maron PA; Ranjard L; Prevost-Boure NC	Improving soil bacterial taxa-area relationships assessment using DNA meta-barcoding	HEREDITY	The evaluation of the taxa-area relationship (TAR) with molecular fingerprinting data demonstrated the spatial structuration of soil microorganisms and provided insights into the processes shaping their diversity. The increasing use of massive sequencing technologies in biodiversity investigations has now raised the question of the advantages of such technologies over the fingerprinting approach for elucidation of the determinism of soil microbial community assembly in broad-scale biogeographic studies. Our objectives in this study were to compare DNA fingerprinting and meta-barcoding approaches for evaluating soil bacterial TAR and the determinism of soil bacterial community assembly on a broad scale. This comparison was performed on 392 soil samples from four French geographic regions with different levels of environmental heterogeneity. Both molecular approaches demonstrated a TAR with a significant slope but, because of its more sensitive description of soil bacterial community richness, meta-barcoding provided significantly higher and more accurate estimates of turnover rates. Both approaches were useful in evidencing the processes shaping bacterial diversity variations on a broad scale. When different taxonomic resolutions were considered for meta-barcoding data, they significantly influenced the estimation of turnover rates but not the relative importance of each component process. Altogether, DNA meta-barcoding provides a more accurate evaluation of the TAR and may lead to re-examination of the processes shaping soil bacterial community assembly. This should provide new insights into soil microbial ecology in the context of sustainable use of soil resources.	2015	114	10.1038/hdy.2014.91	MAYBE	Dave	
Grattepanche JD; Santoferrara LF; McManus GB; Katz LA	Distinct assemblage of planktonic ciliates dominates both photic and deep waters on the New England shelf	MARINE ECOLOGY PROGRESS SERIES	Microbes are critical members of marine ecosystems, given their roles as both primary producers and consumers in food webs. Despite their importance, data on biogeographical patterns of microbial eukaryotes are limited. Past studies have generally targeted either all eukaryotes or broad clades like Rhizaria and Alveolata. For this study, we focus more narrowly on oligotrich and choreotrich ciliates (both members of the class Spirotrichea) as these lineages play major roles in marine food webs. We assess distribution patterns of abundant ciliate community members along a 163 km transect off the coast of New England, USA. Over 3 d, we sampled ciliates at 23 stations from shallow waters (<30 m depth) to beyond the continental shelf (>800 m). We used a community DNA fingerprinting technique, denaturing gradient gel electropho resis (DGGE), to assess patterns for abundant community members and found 2 overlapping assemblages of ciliates: one common in samples from inshore to offshore (up to 180 km from the coast) and from the surface to 850 m deep; and a second that is generally restricted to offshore waters. The distributions of these 2 assemblages correspond with distance from the coast but not with the environmental factors that we measured, including depth, temperature, degree of stratification, phytoplankton fluorescence and accessory pigment composition (a proxy for phytoplankton composition). The presence of these ciliate assemblages as deep as 850 m suggests they may have a broader impact on marine food webs than just photic zone herbivory.	2015	526	10.3354/meps11256	MAYBE	Dave	
Liu J; Wang JN; Gao GH; Bartlam MG; Wang YY	Distribution and diversity of fungi in freshwater sediments on a river catchment scale	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Fungal communities perform essential functions in biogeochemical cycles. However, knowledge of fungal community structural changes in river ecosystems is still very limited. In the present study, we combined culture-dependent and culture-independent methods to investigate fungal distribution and diversity in sediment on a regional scale in the Songhua River catchment, located in North-East Asia. A total of 147 samples over the whole river catchment were analyzed. The results showed that compared to the mainstream, the tributaries have a higher fungal community organization and culturable fungal concentration, but possess lower community dynamics as assessed by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE). Furthermore, phylogenetic analysis of DGGE bands showed that Ascomycota and Basidiomycota were the predominant community in the Songhua River catchment. Redundancy analysis revealed that longitude was the primary factor determining the variation of fungal community structure, and fungal biomass was mainly related to the total nutrient content. Our findings provide new insights into the characteristics of fungal community distribution in a temperate zone river at a regional scale, and demonstrate that fungal dispersal is restricted by geographical barriers in a whole river catchment.	2015	6	10.3389/fmicb.7015.00329	MAYBE	Dave	
Kammerlander B; Breiner HW; Filker S; Sommaruga R; Sonntag B; Stoeck T	High diversity of protistan plankton communities in remote high mountain lakes in the European Alps and the Himalayan mountains	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	We analyzed the genetic diversity (V4 region of the 18S rRNA) of planktonic microbial eukaryotes in four high mountain lakes including two remote biogeographic regions (the Himalayan mountains and the European Alps) and distinct habitat types (clear and glacier-fed turbid lakes). The recorded high genetic diversity in these lakes was far beyond of what is described from high mountain lake plankton. In total, we detected representatives from 66 families with the main taxon groups being Alveolata (55.0% OTUs(97%), operational taxonomic units), Stramenopiles (34.0% OTUs(97%)), Cryptophyta (4.0% OTUs(97%)), Chloroplastida (3.6% OTUs(97%)) and Fungi (1.7% OTUs(97%)). Centrohelida, Choanomonada, Rhizaria, Katablepharidae and Telonema were represented by < 1% OTUs(97%). Himalayan lakes harbored a higher plankton diversity compared to the Alpine lakes (Shannon index). Community structures were significantly different between lake types and biogeographic regions (Fisher exact test, P < 0.01). Network analysis revealed that more families of the Chloroplastida (10 vs 5) and the Stramenopiles (14 vs 8) were found in the Himalayan lakes than in the Alpine lakes and none of the fungal families was shared between them. Biogeographic aspects as well as ecological factors such as water turbidity may structure the microbial eukaryote plankton communities in such remote lakes.	2015	91	10.1093/femsec/fiv010	MAYBE	Dave	
Liu JJ; Sui YY; Yu ZH; Shi Y; Chu HY; Jin J; Liu XB; Wang GH	Soil carbon content drives the biogeographical distribution of fungal communities in the black soil zone of northeast China	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	Black soils (Mollisols) are one of the most important soil resources for maintaining food security in China, and they are mainly distributed in northeast China. A previous comprehensive study revealed the biogeographical distribution patterns of bacterial communities in the black soil zone. In this study, we used the same soil samples and analyzed the 454 pyrosequencing data for the nuclear ribosomal internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region to examine the fungal communities in these black soils. A total of 220,812 fungal ITS sequences were obtained from 26 soil samples that were collected across the black soil zone. These sequences were classified into at least 5 phyla, 20 classes, greater than 70 orders and over 350 genera, suggesting a high fungal diversity across the black soils. The diversity of fungal communities and distribution of several abundant fungal taxa were significantly related to the soil carbon content. Non-metric multidimensional scaling and canonical correspondence analysis plots indicated that the fungal community composition was most strongly affected by the soil carbon content followed by soil pH. This finding differs from the bacterial community results, which indicated that soil pH was the most important edaphic factor in determining the bacterial community composition of these black soils. A variance partitioning analysis indicated that the geographic distance contributed 20% of the fungal community variation and soil environmental factors that were characterized explained approximately 35%. A pairwise analysis revealed that the diversity of the fungal community was relatively higher at lower latitudes, which is similar to the findings for the bacterial communities in the same region and suggests that a latitudinal gradient of microbial community diversity might occur in the black soil zone. By incorporating our previous findings on the bacterial communities, we can conclude that contemporary factors of soil characteristics are more important than historical factor of geographic distance in shaping the microbial community in the black soil zone of northeast China. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2015	83	10.1016/j.soilbio.2015.01.009	YES	Dave	
Segura AM; Calliari D; Kruk C; Fort H; Izaguirre I; Saad JF; Arim M	Metabolic dependence of phytoplankton species richness	GLOBAL ECOLOGY AND BIOGEOGRAPHY	AimTo analyse the dependence of phytoplankton species richness on temperature within the framework of the metabolic theory of ecology (MTE) with explicit consideration of its assumptions and predictions. LocationLakes from the Southern Hemisphere - South America (Argentinean Pampa to Tierra del Fuego) and Antarctica - and Northern Hemisphere - North America (USA) and Europe (Denmark to Spain). MethodsThe MTE proposes that natural logarithm of species richness and the inverse of temperature are linearly related, with a slope equal to the activation energy. The MTE assumes that the total community abundance, average body size and per species average community productivity are independent of the temperature. These predictions and assumptions are here evaluated using c. 660 phytoplankton lake communities and a literature review of 281 experimental measures of growth rate. Linear, curvilinear and segmented models were contrasted with empirical trends. ResultsTemperature-richness relationships showed a three-phase segmented form in two of the three continents. Generally, at temperatures above 17 degrees C and below 11 degrees C there was a weak relationship or none. Intermediate temperatures showed the expected positive association with richness, but with steeper slopes (c. 1) than MTE expectations (c. 0.3). Statistical models including total community abundance and average body size explained up to 64% of the variance in richness. Main conclusionsIn its original formulation the MTE is not a satisfactory model for large-scale richness patterns in phytoplankton. However, the MTE is able to better explain richness patterns when the temperature dependence of abundances and body size are explicitly accounted for in the model. These temperature dependences improve the performance of MTE predictions but question the interpretation of the richness-temperature slope as a measure of activation energy. The balance among activation energy, abundance and body size produced the observed segmented pattern in temperature-richness relationships for lake phytoplankton.	2015	24	10.1111/geb.12258	MAYBE	Dave	
Liang YT; Wu LY; Clark IM; Xue K; Yang YF; Van Nostrand JD; Deng Y; He ZL; McGrath S; Storkey J; Hirsch PR; Sun B; Zhou JZ	Over 150 Years of Long-Term Fertilization Alters Spatial Scaling of Microbial Biodiversity	MBIO	Spatial scaling is a critical issue in ecology, but how anthropogenic activities like fertilization affect spatial scaling is poorly understood, especially for microbial communities. Here, we determined the effects of long-term fertilization on the spatial scaling of microbial functional diversity and its relationships to plant diversity in the 150-year-old Park Grass Experiment, the oldest continuous grassland experiment in the world. Nested samples were taken from plots with contrasting inorganic fertilization regimes, and community DNAs were analyzed using the GeoChip-based functional gene array. The slopes of microbial gene-area relationships (GARs) and plant species-area relationships (SARs) were estimated in a plot receiving nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P), and potassium (K) and a control plot without fertilization. Our results indicated that long-term inorganic fertilization significantly increased both microbial GARs and plant SARs. Microbial spatial turnover rates (i.e., z values) were less than 0.1 and were significantly higher in the fertilized plot (0.0583) than in the control plot (0.0449) (P < 0.0001). The z values also varied significantly with different functional genes involved in carbon (C), N, P, and sulfur (S) cycling and with various phylogenetic groups (archaea, bacteria, and fungi). Similarly, the plant SARs increased significantly (P < 0.0001), from 0.225 in the control plot to 0.419 in the fertilized plot. Soil fertilization, plant diversity, and spatial distance had roughly equal contributions in shaping the microbial functional community structure, while soil geochemical variables contributed less. These results indicated that long-term agricultural practice could alter the spatial scaling of microbial biodiversity. IMPORTANCE Determining the spatial scaling of microbial biodiversity and its response to human activities is important but challenging in microbial ecology. Most studies to date are based on different sites that may not be truly comparable or on short-term perturbations, and hence, the results observed could represent transient responses. This study examined the spatial patterns of microbial communities in response to different fertilization regimes at the Rothamsted Research Experimental Station, which has become an invaluable resource for ecologists, environmentalists, and soil scientists. The current study is the first showing that long-term fertilization has dramatic impacts on the spatial scaling of microbial communities. By identifying the spatial patterns in response to long-term fertilization and their underlying mechanisms, this study makes fundamental contributions to predictive understanding of microbial biogeography.	2015	6	10.1128/mBio.00240-15	MAYBE	Dave	
Glassman SI; Peay KG; Talbot JM; Smith DP; Chung JA; Taylor JW; Vilgalys R; Bruns TD	A continental view of pine-associated ectomycorrhizal fungal spore banks: a quiescent functional guild with a strong biogeographic pattern	NEW PHYTOLOGIST	Ecologists have long acknowledged the importance of seed banks; yet, despite the fact that many plants rely on mycorrhizal fungi for survival and growth, the structure of ectomycorrhizal (ECM) fungal spore banks remains poorly understood. The primary goal of this study was to assess the geographic structure in pine-associated ECM fungal spore banks across the North American continent. Soils were collected from 19 plots in forests across North America. Fresh soils were pyrosequenced for fungal internal transcribed spacer (ITS) amplicons. Adjacent soil cores were dried and bioassayed with pine seedlings, and colonized roots were pyrosequenced to detect resistant propagules of ECM fungi. The results showed that ECM spore banks correlated strongly with biogeographic location, but not with the identity of congeneric plant hosts. Minimal community overlap was found between resident ECM fungi vs those in spore banks, and spore bank assemblages were relatively simple and dominated by Rhizopogon, Wilcoxina, Cenococcum, Thelephora, Tuber, Laccaria and Suillus. Similar to plant seed banks, ECM fungal spore banks are, in general, depauperate, and represent a small and rare subset of the mature forest soil fungal community. Yet, they may be extremely important in fungal colonization after large-scale disturbances such as clear cuts and forest fires.	2015	205	10.1111/nph.13240	YES	Dave	
Ding X; Peng XJ; Jin BS; Xiao M; Chen JK; Li B; Fang CM; Nie M	Spatial distribution of bacterial communities driven by multiple environmental factors in a beach wetland of the largest freshwater lake in China	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	The spatial distributions of bacterial communities may be driven by multiple environmental factors. Thus, understanding the relationships between bacterial distribution and environmental factors is critical for understanding wetland stability and the functioning of freshwater lakes. However, little research on the bacterial communities in deep sediment layers exists. In this study, thirty clone libraries of 16S rRNA were constructed from a beach wetland of the Poyang Lake along both horizontal (distance to the water-land junction) and vertical (sediment depth) gradients to assess the effects of sediment properties on bacterial community structure and diversity. Our results showed that bacterial diversity increased along the horizontal gradient and decreased along the vertical gradient. The heterogeneous sediment properties along gradients substantially affected the dominant bacterial groups at the phylum and species levels. For example, the NH4+ concentration decreased with increasing depth, which was positively correlated with the relative abundance of Alphaproteobacteria. The changes in bacterial diversity and dominant bacterial groups showed that the top layer had a different bacterial community structure than the deeper layers. Principal component analysis revealed that both gradients, not each gradient independently, contributed to the shift in the bacterial community structure. A multiple linear regression model explained the changes in bacterial diversity and richness along the depth and distance gradients. Overall, our results suggest that spatial gradients associated with sediment properties shaped the bacterial communities in the Poyang Lake beach wetland.	2015	6	10.3389/fmicb.2015.00129	MAYBE	Dave	
Forster D; Bittner L; Karkar S; Dunthorn M; Romac S; Audic S; Lopez P; Stoeck T; Bapteste E	Testing ecological theories with sequence similarity networks: marine ciliates exhibit similar geographic dispersal patterns as multicellular organisms	BMC BIOLOGY	Background: High-throughput sequencing technologies are lifting major limitations to molecular-based ecological studies of eukaryotic microbial diversity, but analyses of the resulting millions of short sequences remain a major bottleneck for these approaches. Here, we introduce the analytical and statistical framework of sequence similarity networks, increasingly used in evolutionary studies and graph theory, into the field of ecology to analyze novel pyrosequenced V4 small subunit rDNA (SSU-rDNA) sequence data sets in the context of previous studies, including SSU-rDNA Sanger sequence data from cultured ciliates and from previous environmental diversity inventories. Results: Our broadly applicable protocol quantified the progress in the description of genetic diversity of ciliates by environmental SSU-rDNA surveys, detected a fundamental historical bias in the tendency to recover already known groups in these surveys, and revealed substantial amounts of hidden microbial diversity. Moreover, network measures demonstrated that ciliates are not globally dispersed, but are structured by habitat and geographical location at intermediate geographical scale, as observed for bacteria, plants, and animals. Conclusions: Currently available universal primers used for local in-depth sequencing surveys provide little hope to exhaust the significantly higher ciliate (and most likely microbial) diversity than previously thought. Network analyses such as presented in this study offer a promising way to guide the design of novel primers and to further explore this vast and structured microbial diversity.	2015	13	10.1186/s12915-015-0125-5	MAYBE	Dave	
Zhang XM; Liu W; Zhang GM; Jiang L; Han XG	Mechanisms of soil acidification reducing bacterial diversity	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	A central goal in soil microbial ecology research is to identify the biodiversity patterns and reveal the underlying mechanisms. Long-term soil acidification is known to reduce soil bacterial diversity, but the mechanisms responsible for this pattern have not been well explored. Soil acidification may reduce bacterial richness through ecological filtering (EF). In contrast, two types of processes may promote the maintenance of bacterial richness: species may adapt to the acidic pressure through evolution, and endemic species already adapted to the acidic pressure can colonize the acidified soils through dispersal. To identify the relative contribution of EF and evolution/dispersal (ED), we collected soils with a pH range of 4-7 from different ecosystems, conducted an acidification experiment with a similar pH range in a neutral soil, and proposed a conceptual framework that could distinguish the three potential types of mechanism (neither EF nor ED operate; EF operates alone; ED counteracts some effect of EF). We found that the entire bacterial domain was driven by the third type of mechanism, with ED counteracting about 42.4% (95% confidence interval: 32.7-50.4%) effect of EF. Meanwhile, different bacterial phyla/classes were governed by different types of mechanisms, and the dominant was the third type. Our results highlight the importance of both ecological and evolutionary mechanisms for regulating soil bacterial communities under environmental changes. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2015	81	10.1016/j.soilbio.2014.11.004	MAYBE	Dave	
Yeh YC; Peres-Neto PR; Huang SW; Lai YC; Tu CY; Shiah FK; Gong GC; Hsieh CH	Determinism of bacterial metacommunity dynamics in the southern East China Sea varies depending on hydrography	ECOGRAPHY	Spatial variation of communities composition (metacommunities) results from multiple assembly mechanisms, including environmental filtering and dispersal; however, whether and why the relative importance of the assembly mechanisms in shaping bacterial metacommunity changes through time in marine pelagic systems remains poorly studied. Here, we applied the elements of metacommunity structure framework and the variation partitioning framework to examine whether temporal variation of hydrographic conditions influences bacterioplankton metacommunity dynamics in the southern East China Sea (ECS). The spatiotemporal variation of bacterial communities composition was revealed using 454 pyrosequencing of 16S rDNA. In addition to the whole bacterial community, we analyzed four dominant taxonomic groups (Cyanobacteria, Alphaproteobacteria, Gammaproteobacteria, and Actinobacteria) separately. Our analyses indicate that, considering the whole community level, the determinism of metacommunity structure varied among seasons. When the degree of connectivity was low (December), the metacommunity exhibited random distribution and was explained mainly by the environmental component. However, Clementsian metacommunity was found at intermediate connectivity (May), during which the environmental and spatial predictors were both significant. When connectivity was high (August), a random distribution pattern was found and no significant effect of environmental filtering or dispersal limitation was detected. Nevertheless, when considering different taxonomic groups, the differences in metacommunity dynamics among groups were found. Our results suggest that the driving forces of metacommunity dynamics varied depending on hydrography, as the degrees of environmental heterogeneity and connectivity among habitat patches were determined by circulation pattern. Moreover, mechanisms varied among different taxonomic groups, suggesting that differential dispersal capacity among taxonomic groups should be integrated into community assembly studies.	2015	38	10.1111/ecog.00986	YES	Dave	
Read DS; Gweon HS; Bowes MJ; Newbold LK; Field D; Bailey MJ; Griffiths RI	Catchment-scale biogeography of riverine bacterioplankton	ISME JOURNAL	Lotic ecosystems such as rivers and streams are unique in that they represent a continuum of both space and time during the transition from headwaters to the river mouth. As microbes have very different controls over their ecology, distribution and dispersion compared with macrobiota, we wished to explore biogeographical patterns within a river catchment and uncover the major drivers structuring bacterioplankton communities. Water samples collected across the River Thames Basin, UK, covering the transition from headwater tributaries to the lower reaches of the main river channel were characterised using 16S rRNA gene pyrosequencing. This approach revealed an ecological succession in the bacterial community composition along the river continuum, moving from a community dominated by Bacteroidetes in the headwaters to Actinobacteria-dominated downstream. Location of the sampling point in the river network (measured as the cumulative water channel distance upstream) was found to be the most predictive spatial feature; inferring that ecological processes pertaining to temporal community succession are of prime importance in driving the assemblages of riverine bacterioplankton communities. A decrease in bacterial activity rates and an increase in the abundance of low nucleic acid bacteria relative to high nucleic acid bacteria were found to correspond with these downstream changes in community structure, suggesting corresponding functional changes. Our findings show that bacterial communities across the Thames basin exhibit an ecological succession along the river continuum, and that this is primarily driven by water residence time rather than the physico-chemical status of the river.	2015	9	10.1038/ismej.2014.166	YES	Dave	
Staley C; Gould TJ; Wang P; Phillips J; Cotner JB; Sadowsky MJ	Species sorting and seasonal dynamics primarily shape bacterial communities in the Upper Mississippi River	SCIENCE OF THE TOTAL ENVIRONMENT	Bacterial community structure (BCS) in freshwater ecosystems varies seasonally and due to physicochemical gradients, but metacommunity structure of a major river remains understudied. Here we characterize the BCS along the Mississippi River and contributing rivers in Minnesota over three years using Illumina next-generation sequencing, to determine how changes in environmental conditions as well as inputs from surrounding land and confluences impacted community structure. Contributions of sediment to water microbial diversity were also evaluated. Long-term variation in community membership was observed, and significant shifts in relative abundances of major freshwater taxa, including alpha-Proteobacteria, Burkholderiales, and Actinomycetales, were observed due to temporal and spatial variations. Environmental parameters (e.g. temperature, rainfall, and nutrient concentrations) primarily contributed to differences in phyla abundances (88% of variance), with minimal influence from spatial distance alone (<1% of variance). Furthermore, an annually-recurrent BCS was observed in late summer, further suggesting that seasonal dynamics strongly influence community composition. Sediment communities differed from those in the water, but contributed up to 50% to community composition in the water column. Among water sampling sites, 34% showed significant variability in BCS of replicate samples indicating variability among riverine communities due to heterogeneity in the water column. Results of this study highlight the need for a better understanding of spatial and temporal variations in riverine bacterial diversity associated with physicochemical gradients and reveal how communities in sediments, and potentially other environmental reservoirs, impact waterborne BCS. Techniques used in this study may prove useful to determine sources of microbes from sediments and soils to waterways, which will facilitate best management practices and total maximum daily load determinations. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2015	505	10.1016/j.scitotenv.2014.10.012	YES	Dave	
Charlop-Powers Z; Owen JG; Reddy BVB; Ternei M; Guimaraes DO; de Frias UA; Pupo MT; Seepe P; Feng ZY; Brady SF	Global Biogeographic Sampling of Bacterial Secondary Metabolism	ELIFE	Recent bacterial (meta) genome sequencing efforts suggest the existence of an enormous untapped reservoir of natural-product-encoding biosynthetic gene clusters in the environment. Here we use the pyrosequencing of PCR amplicons derived from both nonribosomal peptide adenylation domains and polyketide ketosynthase domains to compare biosynthetic diversity in soil microbiomes from around the globe. We see large differences in domain populations from all except the most proximal and biome-similar samples, suggesting that most microbiomes will encode largely distinct collections of bacterial secondary metabolites. Our data indicate a correlation between two factors, geographic distance and biome-type, and the biosynthetic diversity found in soil environments. By assigning reads to known gene clusters we identify hotspots of biomedically relevant biosynthetic diversity. These observations not only provide new insights into the natural world, they also provide a road map for guiding future natural products discovery efforts.	2015	4	10.7554/eLife.05048	MAYBE	Dave	
Cottrell MT; del Giorgio PA; Kirchman DL	Biogeography of globally distributed bacteria in temperate and boreal Quebec lakes as revealed by tag pyrosequencing of 16S rRNA genes	AQUATIC MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Sequence data of 16S rRNA genes reveal that many bacterial taxa are found in all freshwater lakes. However, the global data set is highly weighted toward lakes in temperate regions of North America and northern Europe, and it is unclear whether bacterial communities in other northern latitude environments, such as boreal lakes in North America, differ from those in lower latitudes. This study used pyrosequences of the 16S rRNA gene to examine bacterial diversity in 37 temperate and boreal lakes in Quebec, Canada, over the course of a year. Nearly all taxa in the global data set were also found in the Quebec lakes, but relative abundances differed. Community structure varied geographically and seasonally for 97% similar operational taxonomic units (OTUs) but not at lower levels of similarity. Seasonal shifts in community structure were larger in temperate lakes than in boreal lakes, and community structure differed between boreal and temperate lakes in summer but not in winter. The differences in taxonomic composition between temperate and boreal lakes appear to be driven mostly by environmental processes influencing community structure of temperate lakes in summer. Our results provide a baseline for interpreting impacts of climate change in boreal biomes where community structure is driven by environmental factors.	2015	76	10.3354/ame01776	MAYBE	Dave	
Espinosa-Asuar L; Escalante AE; Gasca-Pineda J; Blaz J; Pena L; Eguiarte LE; Souza V	Aquatic bacterial assemblage structure in Pozas Azules, Cuatro Cienegas Basin, Mexico: Deterministic vs. stochastic processes	INTERNATIONAL MICROBIOLOGY	The aim of this study was to determine the contributions of stochastic vs. deterministic processes in the distribution of microbial diversity in four ponds (Pozas Azules) within a temporally stable aquatic system in the Cuatro Cienegas Basin, State of Coahuila, Mexico. A sampling strategy for sites that were geographically delimited and had low environmental variation was applied to avoid obscuring distance effects. Aquatic bacterial diversity was characterized following a culture-independent approach (16S sequencing of clone libraries). The results showed a correlation between bacterial beta diversity (1-Sorensen) and geographic distance (distance decay of similarity), which indicated the influence of stochastic processes related to dispersion in the assembly of the ponds bacterial communities. Our findings are the first to show the influence of dispersal limitation in the prokaryotic diversity distribution of Cuatro Cienegas Basin.	2015	18	10.2436/20.1501.01.240	YES	Dave	
Portail M; Olu K; Escobar-Briones E; Caprais JC; Menot L; Waeles M; Cruaud P; Sarradin PM; Godfroy A; Sarrazin J	Comparative study of vent and seep macrofaunal communities in the Guaymas Basin	BIOGEOSCIENCES	Understanding the ecological processes and connectivity of chemosynthetic deep-sea ecosystems requires comparative studies. In the Guaymas Basin (Gulf of California, Mexico), the presence of seeps and vents in the absence of a biogeographic barrier, and comparable sedimentary settings and depths offers a unique opportunity to assess the role of ecosystem-specific environmental conditions on macrofaunal communities. Six seep and four vent assemblages were studied, three of which were characterised by common major foundation taxa: vesicomyid bivalves, siboglinid tubeworms and microbial mats. Macrofaunal community structure at the family level showed that density, diversity and composition patterns were primarily shaped by seep- and vent-common abiotic factors including methane and hydrogen sulfide concentrations, whereas vent environmental specificities (higher temperature, higher metal concentrations and lower pH) were not significant. The type of substratum and the heterogeneity provided by foundation species were identified as additional structuring factors and their roles were found to vary according to fluid regimes. At the family level, seep and vent similarity reached at least 58 %. All vent families were found at seeps and each seep-specific family displayed low relative abundances (< 5 %). Moreover, 85% of the identified species among dominant families were shared between seep and vent ecosystems. This study provides further support to the hypothesis of continuity among deep-sea seep and vent ecosystems.	2015	12	10.5194/bg-12-5455-2015	MAYBE	Dave	
Teittinen A; Soininen J	Testing the theory of island biogeography for microorganisms-patterns for spring diatoms	AQUATIC MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	According to the theory of island biogeography, species richness in island-like systems is determined by ecosystem size and isolation. However, there is only very little information about how this theory applies to microorganisms. The aim of this study was to examine the effects of local physicochemical variables, land use and geographical factors on diatom species richness and community composition in 50 boreal springs in Finland, and to test for species-area and species-isolation relationships. There were nonsignificant relationships between species richness and spring area and isolation. The best approximating generalized linear model suggested that variation in species richness was related to several local resource and stress factors such as water conductivity, pH, colour, temperature and nutrient concentrations. Based on Mantel tests, diatom community similarity was significantly correlated with environmental distance, but not with geographical distance. Analysis of similarities further showed that community compositions did not differ significantly between ecoregions. These results suggest that spatial factors are of minor importance for spring diatoms compared with environmental filtering. Patterns in spring diatoms do not concur with the theory of island biogeography as we found no support for species-area or species-isolation relationships. At these spatial scales, dispersal limitation does not seem to influence diatom communities.	2015	75	10.3354/ame01759	YES	Dave	
Fujii M; Hirao T; Kojima H; Fukui M	Inter-taxonomic differences in bacterioplankton community assembly in oligotrophic mountain lakes of east Japan	AQUATIC MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	We examined bacterioplankton community composition (BCC) in 27 oligotrophic freshwater lakes with similar environments, located in the mountainous regions of eastern Japan. We determined BCC by the relative sequence abundance of each taxon using polymerase chain reaction-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (PCR-DGGE) targeting the 16S rRNA gene region. Using multiple regression analyses, we investigated the relative importance of environmental and geospatial processes on community assembly of the general bacterioplankton, as well as of the taxonomic groups Betaproteobacteria and Bacteroidetes. Both processes had significant relationships with community assembly. In particular, environmental processes were relevant, however small the variations among study sites. Community composition of Betaproteobacteria was mainly correlated with environmental factors, whereas that of Bacteroidetes was primarily associated with geospatial variables, such as the presence of Tsugaru Strait as a geographic barrier. Thus, inter-taxonomic differences are significant in assessing relationships of environmental and geospatial processes with freshwater BCC. Finally, our study provides evidence that biogeographic events are potentially significant for the distribution and diversity of microorganisms, as is the case with macroorganisms. These perspectives should be taken into consideration in order to fully understand bacterial community assembly.	2015	75	10.3354/ame01760	YES	Dave	
Walsh EA; Smith DC; Sogin ML; DHondt S	Bacterial and archaeal biogeography of the deep chlorophyll maximum in the South Pacific Gyre	AQUATIC MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	We used 16S rRNA gene tag pyro sequencing to examine the biogeography of bacterial and archaeal community composition in the deep chlorophyll maximum (DCM) of the South Pacific Gyre (SPG), the largest and most oligotrophic region of the world ocean. Dominant DCM bacterial taxa, including Prochlorococcus, SAR11, SAR406, and SAR86, were present at each sampled site in similar proportions, although the sites are separated by thousands of kilometers and up to 100 m in water depth. Marine Group II (MGII) and MGIII Euryarcheota dominated the archaeal assemblages of the DCM at these sites. Bray-Curtis indices show that assemblage composition of these sites is > 70% similar for Bacteria and > 80% similar for Archaea. Despite these similarities, communities of the central SPG, the western SPG margin, and the southern SPG margin are distinguishable from each other. Comparison of our bacterial results to samples from the DCM of the North Pacific Gyre (NPG) and the relatively nutrient-and chlorophyll-rich Equatorial Pacific (EQP) shows that DCM bacterial assemblage composition is > 50% similar throughout all 3 regions. Nonetheless, the SPG, NPG, and EQP assemblages are statistically distinct from each other (ANOSIM, p = 0.001), with the communities of the 2 gyres resembling each other more closely than either resembles the EQP community (which lives geographically between them). Variation in assemblage composition correlates with sea-surface chlorophyll concentration (r(2) = 0.71, p < 0.003). This study demonstrates that the DCM horizons of different oceanic regions harbor statistically distinct communities that are consistent within regions for thousands of kilometers.	2015	75	10.3354/ame01746	MAYBE	Dave	
Anderson RE; Sogin ML; Baross JA	Biogeography and ecology of the rare and abundant microbial lineages in deep-sea hydrothermal vents	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Environmental gradients generate countless ecological niches in deep-sea hydrothermal vent systems, which foster diverse microbial communities. The majority of distinct microbial lineages in these communities occur in very low abundance. However, the ecological role and distribution of rare and abundant lineages, particularly in deep, hot subsurface environments, remain unclear. Here, we use 16S rRNA tag sequencing to describe biogeographic patterning and microbial community structure of both rare and abundant archaea and bacteria in hydrothermal vent systems. We show that while rare archaeal lineages and almost all bacterial lineages displayed geographically restricted community structuring patterns, the abundant lineages of archaeal communities displayed a much more cosmopolitan distribution. Finally, analysis of one high-volume, high-temperature fluid sample representative of the deep hot biosphere described a unique microbial community that differed from microbial populations in diffuse flow fluid or sulfide samples, yet the rare thermophilic archaeal groups showed similarities to those that occur in sulfides. These results suggest that while most archaeal and bacterial lineages in vents are rare and display a highly regional distribution, a small percentage of lineages, particularly within the archaeal domain, are successful at widespread dispersal and colonization.	2015	91	10.1093/femsec/fiu016	MAYBE	Dave	
Wang JT; Cao P; Hu HW; Li J; Han LL; Zhang LM; Zheng YM; He JZ	Altitudinal Distribution Patterns of Soil Bacterial and Archaeal Communities Along Mt. Shegyla on the Tibetan Plateau	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Unraveling the distribution patterns of plants and animals along the elevational gradients has been attracting growing scientific interests of ecologists, whether the microbial communities exhibit similar elevational patterns, however, remains largely less documented. Here, we investigate the biogeographic distribution of soil archaeal and bacterial communities across three vertical climate zones (3,106-4,479 m.a.s.l.) in Mt. Shegyla on the Tibetan Plateau, by combining quantitative PCR and high-throughput barcoded pyrosequencing approaches. Our results found that the ratio of bacterial to archaeal 16S rRNA gene abundance was negatively related with elevation. Acidobacteria dominated in the bacterial communities, Marine benthic group A dominated in the archaeal communities, and the relative abundance of both taxa changed significantly with elevation. At the taxonomic levels of domain, phylum, and class, more bacterial taxa than archaeal exhibited declining trend in diversity along the increasing elevational gradient, as revealed by Shannon and Faiths phylogenetic diversity indices. Unweighted UniFrac distance clustering showed that the bacterial communities from the mountainous temperate zone clustered together, whereas those from the subalpine cool temperate zone clustered together. However, the partitioning effect of elevational zones on the archaeal community was much weaker compared to that on bacteria. Redundancy analysis revealed that soil geochemical factors explained 58.3 % of the bacterial community variance and 75.4 % of the archaeal community variance. Taken together, we provide evidence that soil bacteria exhibited more apparent elevational zonation feature and decreased diversity pattern than archaea with increasing elevation, and distribution patterns of soil microbes are strongly regulated by soil properties along elevational gradient in this plateau montane ecosystem.	2015	69	10.1007/s00248-014-0465-7	YES	Dave	
Huang SJ; Zhang S; Jiao NZ; Chen F	Marine Cyanophages Demonstrate Biogeographic Patterns throughout the Global Ocean	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Myoviruses and podoviruses that infect cyanobacteria are the two major groups of marine cyanophages, but little is known of how their phylogenetic lineages are distributed in different habitats. In this study, we analyzed the phylogenetic relationships of cyanopodoviruses and cyanomyoviruses based on the existing genomes. The 28 cyanomyoviruses were classified into four clusters (I to IV), and 19 of the 20 cyanopodoviruses were classified into two clusters, MPP-A and MPP-B, with four subclusters within cluster MPP-B. These genomes were used to recruit cyanophage-like fragments from microbial and viral metagenomes to estimate the relative abundances of these cyanophage lineages. Our results showed that cyanopodoviruses and cyanomyoviruses are both abundant in various marine environments and that clusters MPP-B, II and III appear to be the most dominant lineages. Cyanopodoviruses and cluster I and IV cyanomyoviruses exhibited habitat-related variability in their relative levels of abundance, while cluster II and III cyanomyoviruses appeared to be consistently dominant in various habitats. Multivariate analyses showed that reads that mapped to Synechococcus phages and Prochlorococcus phages had distinct distribution patterns that were significantly correlated to those of Synechococcus and Prochlorococcus, respectively. The Mantel test also revealed a strong correlation between the community compositions of cyanophages and picocyanobacteria. Given that cyanomyoviruses tend to have a broad host range and some can cross-infect Synechococcus and Prochlorococcus, while cyanopodoviruses are commonly host specific, the observation that their community compositions both correlated significantly with that of picocyanobacteria was unexpected. Although cyanomyoviruses and cyanopodoviruses differ in host specificity, their biogeographic distributions are likely both constrained by the picocyanobacterial community.	2015	81	10.1128/AEM.02483-14	MAYBE	Dave	
Shi Y; Xiang XJ; Shen CC; Chu HY; Neufeld JD; Walker VK; Grogan P	Vegetation-Associated Impacts on Arctic Tundra Bacterial and Microeukaryotic Communities	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	The Arctic is experiencing rapid vegetation changes, such as shrub and tree line expansion, due to climate warming, as well as increased wetland variability due to hydrological changes associated with permafrost thawing. These changes are of global concern because changes in vegetation may increase tundra soil biogeochemical processes that would significantly enhance atmospheric CO2 concentrations. Predicting the latter will at least partly depend on knowing the structure, functional activities, and distributions of soil microbes among the vegetation types across Arctic landscapes. Here we investigated the bacterial and microeukaryotic community structures in soils from the four principal low Arctic tundra vegetation types: wet sedge, birch hummock, tall birch, and dry heath. Sequencing of rRNA gene fragments indicated that the wet sedge and tall birch communities differed significantly from each other and from those associated with the other two dominant vegetation types. Distinct microbial communities were associated with soil pH, ammonium concentration, carbon/nitrogen (C/N) ratio, and moisture content. In soils with similar moisture contents and pHs (excluding wet sedge), bacterial, fungal, and total eukaryotic communities were correlated with the ammonium concentration, dissolved organic nitrogen (DON) content, and C/N ratio. Operational taxonomic unit (OTU) richness, Faiths phylogenetic diversity, and the Shannon species-level index (H) were generally lower in the tall birch soil than in soil from the other vegetation types, with pH being strongly correlated with bacterial richness and Faiths phylogenetic diversity. Together, these results suggest that Arctic soil feedback responses to climate change will be vegetation specific not just because of distinctive substrates and environmental characteristics but also, potentially, because of inherent differences in microbial community structure.	2015	81	10.1128/AEM.03229-14	MAYBE	Dave	
Prober SM; Leff JW; Bates ST; Borer ET; Firn J; Harpole WS; Lind EM; Seabloom EW; Adler PB; Bakker JD; Cleland EE; DeCrappeo NM; DeLorenze E; Hagenah N; Hautier Y; Hofmockel KS; Kirkman KP; Knops JMH; La Pierre KJ; MacDougall AS; McCulley RL; Mitchell CE; Risch AC; Schuetz M; Stevens CJ; Williams RJ; Fierer N	Plant diversity predicts beta but not alpha diversity of soil microbes across grasslands worldwide	ECOLOGY LETTERS	Aboveground-belowground interactions exert critical controls on the composition and function of terrestrial ecosystems, yet the fundamental relationships between plant diversity and soil microbial diversity remain elusive. Theory predicts predominantly positive associations but tests within single sites have shown variable relationships, and associations between plant and microbial diversity across broad spatial scales remain largely unexplored. We compared the diversity of plant, bacterial, archaeal and fungal communities in one hundred and forty-five 1m(2) plots across 25 temperate grassland sites from four continents. Across sites, the plant alpha diversity patterns were poorly related to those observed for any soil microbial group. However, plant beta diversity (compositional dissimilarity between sites) was significantly correlated with the beta diversity of bacterial and fungal communities, even after controlling for environmental factors. Thus, across a global range of temperate grasslands, plant diversity can predict patterns in the composition of soil microbial communities, but not patterns in alpha diversity.	2015	18	10.1111/ele.12381	MAYBE	Dave	
Kivlin SN; Winston GC; Goulden ML; Treseder KK	Environmental filtering affects soil fungal community composition more than dispersal limitation at regional scales	FUNGAL ECOLOGY	The relative importance of dispersal limitation versus environmental filtering for community assembly has received much attention for macroorganisms. These processes have only recently been examined in microbial communities. Instead, microbial dispersal has mostly been measured as community composition change over space (i.e., distance decay). Here we directly examined fungal composition in airborne wind currents and soil fungal communities across a 40 000 km(2) regional landscape to determine if dispersal limitation or abiotic factors were structuring soil fungal communities. Over this landscape, neither airborne nor soil fungal communities exhibited compositional differences due to geographic distance. Airborne fungal communities shifted temporally while soil fungal communities were correlated with abiotic parameters. These patterns suggest that environmental filtering may have the largest influence on fungal regional community assembly in soils, especially for aerially dispersed fungal taxa. Furthermore, we found evidence that dispersal of fungal spores differs between fungal taxa and can be both a stochastic and deterministic process. The spatial range of soil fungal taxa was correlated with their average regional abundance across all sites, which may imply stochastic dispersal mechanisms. Nevertheless, spore volume was also negatively correlated with spatial range for some species. Smaller volume spores may be adapted to long-range dispersal, or establishment, suggesting that deterministic fungal traits may also influence fungal distributions. Fungal life-history traits may influence their distributions as well. Hypogeous fungal taxa exhibited high local abundance, but small spatial ranges, while epigeous fungal taxa had lower local abundance, but larger spatial ranges. This study is the first, to our knowledge, to directly sample air dispersal and soil fungal communities simultaneously across a regional landscape. We provide some of the first evidence that soil fungal communities are mostly assembled through environmental filtering and experience little dispersal limitation. Elsevier Ltd and The British Mycological Society.	2014	12	10.1016/j.funeco.2014.04.004	YES	Dave	
Belisle M; Mendenhall CD; Brenes FO; Fukami T	Temporal variation in fungal communities associated with tropical hummingbirds and nectarivorous bats	FUNGAL ECOLOGY	Species of yeasts and other microfungi carried by pollinators are of general ecological interest because some of these microbial species can grow in floral nectar and affect plant-pollinator interactions. It is, however, not well understood how the composition of fungal species found on pollinators varies over space or time. The spatial and temporal distribution patterns in the microfungi found on the bills of hummingbirds and in the mouths of nectarivorous bats was investigated along a gradient of deforestation within a Costa Rican countryside landscape. The community composition of microfungi found on hummingbirds bills and bats mouths underwent substantial compositional turnover over a 2-month period and between 2 yr. In contrast, fungal community composition was not significantly correlated with spatial distance, habitat type, species of hummingbirds, nor the forest dependency of the hummingbirds sampled for microfungi. These findings suggest that, in this landscape, fungal communities on a nectarivous vertebrate vector might be influenced primarily by temporal factors such as plant and flower phenology rather than spatial environmental heterogeneity. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd and The British Mycological Society. All rights reserved.	2014	12	10.1016/j.funeco.2014.02.007	YES	Dave	
Liu JW; Yang HM; Zhao MX; Zhang XH	Spatial distribution patterns of benthic microbial communities along the Pearl Estuary, China	SYSTEMATIC AND APPLIED MICROBIOLOGY	In the present study, benthic microbial communities along the Pearl Estuary, a typical subtropical estuary in China subjected to extensive anthropogenic disturbance, were investigated using 16S rRNA gene-based pyrosequencing. The results showed that microbial communities in freshwater samples were clearly distinct from those in saltwater samples, since the relative sequence abundances of Deltaproteobacteria, Thermoplasmata and Marine Group I (MG-I) were higher in saltwater sediments, whereas Chloroflexi, Spirochaetes, Betaproteobacteria and methanogens were more prevalent in freshwater sediments. In addition, bacterial communities showed vertical stratifications in saltwater sediments, but remained constant with depth in freshwater sediments. The total organic carbon and carbon/nitrogen ratio in sediments correlated significantly with the overall community variations. The predominance of various microorganisms in specific niches led to efforts to identify their functional couplings by exploring their co-occurrence patterns. Using network analysis, strong positive correlations were observed between sulfate-reducing bacteria (SRB) and sulfur-oxidizing bacteria, and between SRB and nitrite-oxidizing bacteria, indicating the potential interactions of intra-sulfur cycle processes, as well as sulfur and nitrogen cycles, in coastal sediments. Archaeal clades revealed strong and wide correlations between the Miscellaneous Crenarchaeotal Group (MCG) and other groups, suggesting a central role of MCG in the coastal benthic environment. Inversely, MG-I displayed negative correlations with other clades, which might indicate that the lifestyles of heterotrophic and autotrophic clades were mutually exclusive. This study presented a detailed outline of the biogeographic patterns of benthic microbial communities along the Pearl Estuary and provided new information regarding the potential interactions of various biogeochemical cycles in coastal sediments. (C) 2014 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.	2014	37	10.1016/j.syapm.2014.10.005	MAYBE	Dave	
Barberan A; Casamayor EO	A phylogenetic perspective on species diversity, beta-diversity and biogeography for the microbial world	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	There is an increasing interest to combine phylogenetic data with distributional and ecological records to assess how natural communities arrange under an evolutionary perspective. In the microbial world, there is also a need to go beyond the problematic species definition to deeply explore ecological patterns using genetic data. We explored links between evolution/phylogeny and community ecology using bacterial 16S rRNA gene information from a high-altitude lakes district data set. We described phylogenetic community composition, spatial distribution, and -diversity and biogeographical patterns applying evolutionary relatedness without relying on any particular operational taxonomic unit definition. High-altitude lakes districts usually contain a large mosaic of highly diverse small water bodies and conform a fine biogeographical model of spatially close but environmentally heterogeneous ecosystems. We sampled 18 lakes in the Pyrenees with a selection criteria focused on capturing the maximum environmental variation within the smallest geographical area. The results showed highly diverse communities nonrandomly distributed with phylogenetic -diversity patterns mainly shaped by the environment and not by the spatial distance. Community similarity based on both bacterial taxonomic composition and phylogenetic -diversity shared similar patterns and was primarily structured by similar environmental drivers. We observed a positive relationship between lake area and phylogenetic diversity with a slope consistent with highly dispersive planktonic organisms. The phylogenetic approach incorporated patterns of common ancestry into bacterial community analysis and emerged as a very convenient analytical tool for direct inter- and intrabiome biodiversity comparisons and sorting out microbial habitats with potential application in conservation studies.	2014	23	10.1111/mec.12971	YES	Dave	
Jackson CR; Millar JJ; Payne JT; Ochs CA	Free-Living and Particle-Associated Bacterioplankton in Large Rivers of the Mississippi River Basin Demonstrate Biogeographic Patterns	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	The different drainage basins of large rivers such as the Mississippi River represent interesting systems in which to study patterns in freshwater microbial biogeography. Spatial variability in bacterioplankton communities in six major rivers (the Upper Mississippi, Missouri, Illinois, Ohio, Tennessee, and Arkansas) of the Mississippi River Basin was characterized using Ion Torrent 16S rRNA amplicon sequencing. When all systems were combined, particle-associated (> 3 mu m) bacterial assemblages were found to be different from free-living bacterioplankton in terms of overall community structure, partly because of differences in the proportional abundance of sequences affiliated with major bacterial lineages (Alphaproteobacteria, Cyanobacteria, and Planctomycetes). Both particle-associated and free-living communities ordinated by river system, a pattern that was apparent even after rare sequences or those affiliated with Cyanobacteria were removed from the analyses. Ordination of samples by river system correlated with environmental characteristics of each river, such as nutrient status and turbidity. Communities in the Upper Mississippi and the Missouri and in the Ohio and the Tennessee, pairs of rivers that join each other, contained similar taxa in terms of presence-absence data but differed in the proportional abundance of major lineages. The most common sequence types detected in particle-associated communities were picocyanobacteria in the Synechococcus/Prochlorococcus/Cyanobium (Syn/Pro) clade, while free-living communities also contained a high proportion of LD12 (SAR11/Pelagibacter)-like Alphaproteobacteria. This research shows that while different tributaries of large river systems such as the Mississippi River harbor distinct bacterioplankton communities, there is also microhabitat variation such as that between free-living and particle-associated assemblages.	2014	80	10.1128/AEM.01844-14	MAYBE	Dave	
Ramirez KS; Leff JW; Barberan A; Bates ST; Betley J; Crowther TW; Kelly EF; Oldfield EE; Shaw EA; Steenbock C; Bradford MA; Wall DH; Fierer N	Biogeographic patterns in below-ground diversity in New York Citys Central Park are similar to those observed globally	PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY B-BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES	Soil biota play key roles in the functioning of terrestrial ecosystems, however, compared to our knowledge of above-ground plant and animal diversity, the biodiversity found in soils remains largely uncharacterized. Here, we present an assessment of soil biodiversity and biogeographic patterns across Central Park in New York City that spanned all three domains of life, demonstrating that even an urban, managed system harbours large amounts of undescribed soil biodiversity. Despite high variability across the Park, below-ground diversity patterns were predictable based on soil characteristics, with prokaryotic and eukaryotic communities exhibiting overlapping biogeographic patterns. Further, Central Park soils harboured nearly as many distinct soil microbial phylotypes and types of soil communities as we found in biomes across the globe (including arctic, tropical and desert soils). This integrated cross-domain investigation highlights that the amount and patterning of novel and uncharacterized diversity at a single urban location matches that observed across natural ecosystems spanning multiple biomes and continents.	2014	281	10.1098/rspb.2014.1988	YES	Dave	
Freimann R; Burgmann H; Findlay SEG; Robinson CT	Spatio-Temporal Patterns of Major Bacterial Groups in Alpine Waters	PLOS ONE	Glacial alpine landscapes are undergoing rapid transformation due to changes in climate. The loss of glacial ice mass has directly influenced hydrologic characteristics of alpine floodplains. Consequently, hyporheic sediment conditions are likely to change in the future as surface waters fed by glacial water (kryal) become groundwater dominated (krenal). Such environmental shifts may subsequently change bacterial community structure and thus potential ecosystem functioning. We quantitatively investigated the structure of major bacterial groups in glacial and groundwater-fed streams in three alpine floodplains during different hydrologic periods. Our results show the importance of several physico-chemical variables that reflect local geological characteristics as well as water source in structuring bacterial groups. For instance, Alpha-, Betaproteobacteria and Cytophaga-Flavobacteria were influenced by pH, conductivity and temperature as well as by inorganic and organic carbon compounds, whereas phosphorous compounds and nitrate showed specific influence on single bacterial groups. These results can be used to predict future bacterial group shifts, and potential ecosystem functioning, in alpine landscapes under environmental transformation.	2014	9	10.1371/journal.pone.0113524	MAYBE	Dave	
Prevost-Boure NC; Dequiedt S; Thioulouse J; Lelievre M; Saby NPA; Jolivet C; Arrouays D; Plassart P; Lemanceau P; Ranjard L	Similar Processes but Different Environmental Filters for Soil Bacterial and Fungal Community Composition Turnover on a Broad Spatial Scale	PLOS ONE	Spatial scaling of microorganisms has been demonstrated over the last decade. However, the processes and environmental filters shaping soil microbial community structure on a broad spatial scale still need to be refined and ranked. Here, we compared bacterial and fungal community composition turnovers through a biogeographical approach on the same soil sampling design at a broad spatial scale (area range: 13300 to 31000 km(2)): i) to examine their spatial structuring; ii) to investigate the relative importance of environmental selection and spatial autocorrelation in determining their community composition turnover; and iii) to identify and rank the relevant environmental filters and scales involved in their spatial variations. Molecular fingerprinting of soil bacterial and fungal communities was performed on 413 soils from four French regions of contrasting environmental heterogeneity (Landes<Burgundy <= Brittany<<South-East) using the systematic grid of French Soil Quality Monitoring Network to evaluate the communities composition turnovers. The relative importance of processes and filters was assessed by distance-based redundancy analysis. This study demonstrates significant community composition turnover rates for soil bacteria and fungi, which were dependent on the region. Bacterial and fungal community composition turnovers were mainly driven by environmental selection explaining from 10% to 20% of community composition variations, but spatial variables also explained 3% to 9% of total variance. These variables highlighted significant spatial autocorrelation of both communities unexplained by the environmental variables measured and could partly be explained by dispersal limitations. Although the identified filters and their hierarchy were dependent on the region and organism, selection was systematically based on a common group of environmental variables: pH, trophic resources, texture and land use. Spatial autocorrelation was also important at coarse (80 to 120 km radius) and/or medium (40 to 65 km radius) spatial scales, suggesting dispersal limitations at these scales.	2014	9	10.1371/journal.pone.0111667	YES	Dave	
Siciliano SD; Palmer AS; Winsley T; Lamb E; Bissett A; Brown MV; van Dorst J; Ji MK; Ferrari BC; Grogan P; Chu HY; Snape I	Soil fertility is associated with fungal and bacterial richness, whereas pH is associated with community composition in polar soil microbial communities	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	Microbial activities in Arctic and Antarctic soils are of particular interest due to uncertainty surrounding the fate of the enormous polar soil organic matter (SOM) pools and the potential to lose unique and vulnerable micro-organisms from these ecosystems. We quantified richness, evenness and taxonomic composition of both fungi and bacteria in 223 Arctic and Antarctic soil samples across 8 locations to test the global applicability of hypotheses concerning edaphic drivers of soil microbial communities that have been primarily developed from studies of bacteria in temperate and tropical systems. We externally validated our models conclusions with an independent dataset comprising 33 Arctic heath samples. We also explored if our system was responding to large scale climatic or biogeographical processes that we had not measured by evaluating model stability for one location, Mitchell Pennisula, that had been extensively sampled. Soil Fertility (defined as organic matter, nitrogen and chloride content) was the most important edaphic property associated with measures of a-diversity such as microbial richness and evenness (especially for fungi), whereas pH was primarily associated with measures of beta-diversity such as phylogenetic structure and diversity (especially for bacteria). Surprisingly, phosphorus emerged as consistently the second most important driver of all facets of microbial community structure for both fungi and bacteria. Despite the clear importance of edaphic factors in controlling microbial communities, our analyses also indicated that fungal/bacterial interactions play a major, but causally unclear, role in structuring the soil microbial communities of which they are a part. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2014	78	10.1016/j.soilbio.2014.07.005	MAYBE	Dave	
Fonseca VG; Carvalho GR; Nichols B; Quince C; Johnson HF; Neill SP; Lambshead JD; Thomas WK; Power DM; Creer S	Metagenetic analysis of patterns of distribution and diversity of marine meiobenthic eukaryotes	GLOBAL ECOLOGY AND BIOGEOGRAPHY	AimMeiofaunal communities that inhabit the marine benthos offer unique opportunities to simultaneously study the macroecology of numerous phyla that exhibit different life-history strategies. Here, we ask: (1) if the macroecology of meiobenthic communities is explained mainly by dispersal constraints or by environmental conditions; and (2) if levels of meiofaunal diversity surpass existing estimates based on morphological taxonomy. LocationUK and mainland European coast. MethodsNext-generation sequencing techniques (NGS; Roche 454 FLX platform) using 18S nuclear small subunit ribosomal DNA (rDNA) gene. Pyrosequences were analysed using AmpliconNoise followed by chimera removal using Perseus. ResultsRarefaction curves revealed that sampling saturation was only reached at 15% of sites, highlighting that the bulk of meiofaunal diversity is yet to be discovered. Overall, 1353 OTUs were recovered and assigned to 23 different phyla. The majority of sampled sites had c. 60-70 unique operational taxonomic units (OTUs) per site, indicating high levels of beta diversity. The environmental parameters that best explained community structure were seawater temperature, geographical distance and sediment size, but most of the variability (R-2=70%-80%) remains unexplained. Main conclusionsHigh percentages of endemic OTUs suggest that meiobenthic community composition is partly niche-driven, as observed in larger organisms, but also shares macroecological features of microorganisms by showing high levels of cosmopolitanism (albeit on a much smaller scale). Meiobenthic communities exhibited patterns of isolation by distance as well as associations between niche, latitude and temperature, indicating that meiobenthic communities result from a combination of niche assembly and dispersal processes. Conversely, isolation-by-distance patterns were not identified in the featured protists, suggesting that animals and protists adhere to radically different macroecological processes, linked to life-history strategies.	2014	23	10.1111/geb.12223	YES	Dave	
Lau MCY; Cameron C; Magnabosco C; Brown CT; Schilkey F; Grim S; Hendrickson S; Pullin M; Lollar BS; van Heerden E; Kieft TL; Onstott TC	Phylogeny and phylogeography of functional genes shared among seven terrestrial subsurface metagenomes reveal N-cycling and microbial evolutionary relationships	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Comparative studies on community phylogenetics and phylogeography of microorganisms living in extreme environments are rare. Terrestrial subsurface habitats are valuable for studying microbial biogeographical patterns due to their isolation and the restricted dispersal mechanisms. Since the taxonomic identity of a microorganism does not always correspond well with its functional role in a particular community, the use of taxonomic assignments or patterns may give limited inference on how microbial functions are affected by historical, geographical and environmental factors. With seven metagenomic libraries generated from fracture water samples collected from five South African mines, this study was carried out to (1) screen for ubiquitous functions or pathways of biogeochemical cycling of CH4, S, and N; (2) to characterize the biodiversity represented by the common functional genes; (3) to investigate the subsurface biogeography as revealed by this subset of genes; and (4) to explore the possibility of using metagenomic data for evolutionary study. The ubiquitous functional genes are NarV, NPD, PAPS reductase, NifH, NifD, NifK, NifE, and NifN genes. Although these eight common functional genes were taxonomically and phylogenetically diverse and distinct from each other, the dissimilarity between samples did not correlate strongly with geographical or environmental parameters or residence time of the water. Por genes homologous to those of Thermodesulfovibrio yellowstonii detected in all metagenomes were deep lineages of Nitrospirae, suggesting that subsurface habitats have preserved ancestral genetic signatures that inform the study of the origin and evolution of prokaryotes.	2014	5	10.3389/fmicb.2014.00531	YES	Dave	
Barreto DP; Conrad R; Klose M; Claus P; Enrich-Prast A	Distance-Decay and Taxa-Area Relationships for Bacteria, Archaea and Methanogenic Archaea in a Tropical Lake Sediment	PLOS ONE	The study of of the distribution of microorganisms through space (and time) allows evaluation of biogeographic patterns, like the species-area index (z). Due to their high dispersal ability, high reproduction rates and low rates of extinction microorganisms tend to be widely distributed, and they are thought to be virtually cosmopolitan and selected primarily by environmental factors. Recent studies have shown that, despite these characteristics, microorganisms may behave like larger organisms and exhibit geographical distribution. In this study, we searched patterns of spatial diversity distribution of bacteria and archaea in a contiguous environment. We collected 26 samples of a lake sediment, distributed in a nested grid, with distances between samples ranging from 0.01 m to 1000 m. The samples were analyzed using T-RFLP (Terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism) targeting mcrA (coding for a subunit of methyl-coenzyme M reductase) and the genes of Archaeal and Bacterial 16S rRNA. From the qualitative and quantitative results (relative abundance of operational taxonomic units) we calculated the similarity index for each pair to evaluate the taxa-area and distance decay relationship slopes by linear regression. All results were significant, with mcrA genes showing the highest slope, followed by Archaeal and Bacterial 16S rRNA genes. We showed that the microorganisms of a methanogenic community, that is active in a contiguous environment, display spatial distribution and a taxa-area relationship.	2014	9	10.1371/journal.pone.0110128	YES	Dave	
Tsiknia M; Paranychianakis NV; Varouchakis EA; Moraetis D; Nikolaidis NP	Environmental drivers of soil microbial community distribution at the Koiliaris Critical Zone Observatory	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Data on soil microbial community distribution at large scales are limited despite the important information that could be drawn with regard to their function and the influence of environmental factors on nutrient cycling and ecosystem services. This study investigates the distribution of Archaea, Bacteria and Fungi as well as the dominant bacterial phyla (Acidobacteria, Actinobacteria, Bacteroidetes, Firmicutes), and classes of Proteobacteria (Alpha- and Betaproteobacteria) across the Koiliaris watershed by qPCR and associate them with environmental variables. Predictive maps of microorganisms distribution at watershed scale were generated by co-kriging, using the most significant predictors. Our findings showed that 31-79% of the spatial variation in microbial taxa abundance could be explained by the parameters measured, with total organic carbon and pH being identified as the most important. Moreover, strong correlations were set between microbial groups and their inclusion on variance explanation improved the prediction power of the models. The spatial autocorrelation of microbial groups ranged from 309 to 2.226m, and geographic distance, by itself, could explain a high proportion of their variation. Our findings shed light on the factors shaping microbial communities at a high taxonomic level and provide evidence for ecological coherence and syntrophic interactions at the watershed scale.	2014	90	10.1111/1574-6941.12379	YES	Dave	
Dini-Andreote F; Silva MDPE; Triado-Margarit X; Casamayor EO; van Elsas JD; Salles JF	Dynamics of bacterial community succession in a salt marsh chronosequence: evidences for temporal niche partitioning	ISME JOURNAL	The mechanisms underlying community assembly and promoting temporal succession are often overlooked in microbial ecology. Here, we studied an undisturbed salt marsh chronosequence, spanning over a century of ecosystem development, to understand bacterial succession in soil. We used 16S rRNA gene-based quantitative PCR to determine bacterial abundance and multitag 454 pyrosequencing for community composition and diversity analyses. Despite 10-fold lower 16S rRNA gene abundances, the initial stages of soil development held higher phylogenetic diversities than the soil at late succession. Temporal variations in phylogenetic beta-diversity were greater at initial stages of soil development, possibly as a result of the great dynamism imposed by the daily influence of the tide, promoting high immigration rates. Allogenic succession of bacterial communities was mostly driven by shifts in the soil physical structure, as well as variations in pH and salinity, which collectively explained 84.5% of the variation concerning community assemblage. The community assembly data for each successional stage were integrated into a network co-occurrence analysis, revealing higher complexity at initial stages, coinciding with great dynamism in turnover and environmental variability. Contrary to a spatial niche-based perspective of bacterial community assembly, we suggest temporal niche partitioning as the dominant mechanism of assembly (promoting more phylotype co-occurrence) in the initial stages of succession, where continuous environmental change results in the existence of multiple niches over short periods of time.	2014	8	10.1038/ismej.2014.54	MAYBE	Dave	
Hu YJ; Xiang D; Veresoglou SD; Chen FL; Chen YL; Hao ZP; Zhang X; Chen BD	Soil organic carbon and soil structure are driving microbial abundance and community composition across the arid and semi-arid grasslands in northern China	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	Microbial biogeography through the study of the assembly rules of microbes has the potential to yield ecological information that is generalizable for a wide range of microorganisms. Here we performed a large-scale field investigation of the distribution patterns of microbes across the arid and semi-arid grassland ecosystems covering an area of 690,000 km(2) in northern China. Soil microbial abundance and community composition were examined through quantifying microbial phospholipid fatty acids (PLFAs) at fifty sampling sites along environmental gradients. A multi-model inference analysis identified soil organic carbon (SOC) as a key driving factor for microbial biomass and quantified its effect. Structural equation models (SEM) were further fitted to the data to provide a better mechanistic resolution of direct and indirect pathways that connected PLFAs and environmental variables. The SEM analysis also supported that SOC was the main positive predictor of microbial biomass, while MAT served as the main negative factor via an indirect pathway. To visualize complex relationships between microbial community and environmental variables we engaged in a redundancy analysis. The result showed that PLFA profiles could be largely explained by the soil variables including soil structure (PSD) and pH. Overall, our report through the analysis of an unprecedented amount of primary data yields unique insights into the relative importance of abiotic factors in shaping microbial communities at large scales. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2014	77	10.1016/j.soilbio.2014.06.014	MAYBE	Dave	
Peay KG; Bruns TD	Spore dispersal of basidiomycete fungi at the landscape scale is driven by stochastic and deterministic processes and generates variability in plant-fungal interactions	NEW PHYTOLOGIST	Fungi play an important role in plant communities and ecosystem function. As a result, variation in fungal community composition can have important consequences for plant fitness. However, there are relatively few empirical data on how dispersal might affect fungal communities and the ecological processes they mediate. We established sampling stations across a large area of coastal landscape varying in their spatial proximity to each other and contrasting vegetation types. We measured dispersal of spores from a key group of fungi, the Basidomycota, across this landscape using qPCR and 454 pyrosequencing. We also measured the colonization of ectomycorrhizal fungi at each station using sterile bait seedlings. We found a high degree of spatial and temporal variability in the composition of Basidiomycota spores. This variability was in part stochastic and in part explained by spatial proximity to other vegetation types and time of year. Variation in spore community also affected colonization by ectomycorrhizal fungi and seedling growth. Our results demonstrate that fungal host and habitat specificity coupled with dispersal limitation can lead to local variation in fungal community structure and plant-fungal interactions. Understanding fungal communities also requires explicit knowledge of landscape context in addition to local environmental conditions.	2014	204	10.1111/nph.12906	YES	Dave	
Donnarumma F; Bazzicalupo M; Blazinkov M; Mengoni A; Sikora S; Babic KH	Biogeography of Sinorhizobium meliloti nodulating alfalfa in different Croatian regions	RESEARCH IN MICROBIOLOGY	Sinorhizobium meliloti is a nitrogen-fixing rhizobium symbiont of legumes, widespread in many temperate environments the high genetic diversity of which enables it to thrive as a symbiont of host legumes and free-living in soil. Soil type, together with geographic differences and host plant genotype, seem to be prominent factors in shaping rhizobial genetic diversity. While a large body of research supports the idea that the genetic structure of free-living microbial taxa exhibits a clear biogeographic pattern, few investigations have been performed on the biogeographic pattern of S. meliloti genotypes in a restricted geographic range. In the present study, a collection of 128 S. meliloti isolates from three different regions in Croatia was investigated to analyze the relationship between genetic diversity, geographic distribution, soil features and isolate phenotypes by using amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) as a genome-wide scanning method. Results obtained led to the conclusion that the genotypes of isolates cluster according to the region of origin and that the differentiation of S. meliloti populations can be mainly ascribed to geographic isolation following an isolation-by-distance model, with a strong distance-decay relationship of genetic similarity with distance, in which local soil conditions are not the major component influencing the isolate phenotypes or their genomic differentiation. (C) 2014 Institut Pasteur. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.	2014	165	10.1016/j.resmic.2014.06.001	MAYBE	Dave	
Taylor MW; Tsai P; Anfang N; Ross HA; Goddard MR	Pyrosequencing reveals regional differences in fruit-associated fungal communities	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	We know relatively little of the distribution of microbial communities generally. Significant work has examined a range of bacterial communities, but the distribution of microbial eukaryotes is less well characterized. Humans have an ancient association with grape vines (Vitis vinifera) and have been making wine since the dawn of civilization, and fungi drive this natural process. While the molecular biology of certain fungi naturally associated with vines and wines is well characterized, complementary investigations into the ecology of fungi associated with fruiting plants is largely lacking. DNA sequencing technologies allow the direct estimation of microbial diversity from a given sample, avoiding culture-based biases. Here, we use deep community pyrosequencing approaches, targeted at the 26S rRNA gene, to examine the richness and composition of fungal communities associated with grapevines and test for geographical community structure among four major regions in New Zealand (NZ). We find over 200 taxa using this approach, which is 10-fold more than previously recovered using culture-based methods. Our analyses allow us to reject the null hypothesis of homogeneity in fungal species richness and community composition across NZ and reveal significant differences between major areas.	2014	16	10.1111/1462-2920.12456	MAYBE	Dave	
Pellissier L; Niculita-Hirzel H; Dubuis A; Pagni M; Guex N; Ndiribe C; Salamin N; Xenarios I; Goudet J; Sanders IR; Guisan A	Soil fungal communities of grasslands are environmentally structured at a regional scale in the Alps	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	Studying patterns of species distributions along elevation gradients is frequently used to identify the primary factors that determine the distribution, diversity and assembly of species. However, despite their crucial role in ecosystem functioning, our understanding of the distribution of below-ground fungi is still limited, calling for more comprehensive studies of fungal biogeography along environmental gradients at various scales (from regional to global). Here, we investigated the richness of taxa of soil fungi and their phylogenetic diversity across a wide range of grassland types along a 2800 m elevation gradient at a large number of sites (213), stratified across a region of the Western Swiss Alps (700 km(2)). We used 454 pyrosequencing to obtain fungal sequences that were clustered into operational taxonomic units (OTUs). The OTU diversity-area relationship revealed uneven distribution of fungal taxa across the study area (i.e. not all taxa are everywhere) and fine-scale spatial clustering. Fungal richness and phylogenetic diversity were found to be higher in lower temperatures and higher moisture conditions. Climatic and soil characteristics as well as plant community composition were related to OTU alpha, beta and phylogenetic diversity, with distinct fungal lineages suggesting distinct ecological tolerances. Soil fungi, thus, show lineage-specific biogeographic patterns, even at a regional scale, and follow environmental determinism, mediated by interactions with plants.	2014	23	10.1111/mec.12854	YES	Dave	
Kilias E; Kattner G; Wolf C; Frickenhaus S; Metfies K	A molecular survey of protist diversity through the central Arctic Ocean	POLAR BIOLOGY	The protist assemblage in the central Arctic Ocean is scarcely surveyed despite them being the major primary producers. Elucidating their response to changing environmental variables requires an a priori analysis of their current diversity, including abundant and rare species. In late summer 2011, samples were collected during the ARK-XXVI/3 expedition (RV Polarstern) to study Arctic protist community structures, by implementation of automated ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis (ARISA) and 454-pyrosequencing. Protist assemblages were related to the hydrology and environmental variables (temperature, salinity, ice coverage, nitrate, phosphate, and silicate). The abundant (a parts per thousand yen1 %) biosphere and rare (< 1 %) biosphere were considered separately in the diversity analysis in order to reveal their mutual relationships. A relation between hydrology and protist community structure was highly supported by ARISA and partially by 454-pyrosequencing. Sea ice showed a stronger influence on the local community structure than nutrient availability, making statements on the water mass influence more difficult. Dinoflagellates (Syndiniales), chlorophytes (Micromonas spp.), and haptophytes (Phaeocystis spp.) were important contributors to the abundant biosphere, while other dinoflagellates and stramenopiles dominated the rare biosphere. No significant correlation was found between the abundant and rare biosphere. However, relative contributions of major taxonomic groups revealed an unexpected stable community structure within the rare biosphere, indicating a potential constant protist reservoir. This study provides a first molecular survey of protist diversity in the central Arctic Ocean, focusing on the diversity and distribution of abundant and rare protists according to the environmental conditions, and can serve as baseline for future analysis.	2014	37	10.1007/s00300-014-1519-5	MAYBE	Dave	
Landesman WJ; Nelson DM; Fitzpatrick MC	Soil properties and tree species drive beta-diversity of soil bacterial communities	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	A challenge in ecology and biogeography is to understand the drivers of the composition and distribution of biological communities. Environmental factors (especially pH) and dispersal limitation are thought to exert the primary controls on the composition of soil bacterial communities. However, quantifying their relative importance remains difficult because of analytical uncertainties. For example, the relationship between bacterial community composition and soil pH, which is often nonlinear, is typically evaluated with a linear test and without accounting for variability in rates of turnover along environmental gradients. Furthermore, potential drivers of variation in soil pH, and therefore bacterial community composition, are not commonly analyzed during microbial biogeographical studies. To address these issues we collected 700 soil samples across multiple spatial scales from beneath four late-successional tree species within 12 forests in the eastern United States. We performed high-throughput sequencing of 16S rDNA amplicons and measured soil properties thought to influence soil bacterial composition. Generalized Dissimilarity Modeling, a non-linear form of matrix regression, indicated that geographic distance and soil properties explained 77.3% of the deviance in turnover in overall bacterial community composition. However, only 2.1% of the explained deviance was attributable to geographic distance, indicating little contribution of dispersal limitation to bacterial beta-diversity across scales of similar to 1.7 m to >1000 km. Although 81.7% of the explained deviance in overall bacterial composition was attributable to soil properties, particularly soil pH, the magnitude and rate of compositional turnover varied among bacterial families across the pH gradient. The beta-diversity of three dominant families (Bradyrhizobiaceae, Hyphomicrobiaceae and Burkholderia) was explained by neither soil properties nor geographic distance. Differences in soil pH between certain tree species likely led to distinct bacterial communities at several sites. Thus, shifts in soil pH, potentially as the result of shifts in tree composition, will likely have important consequences for the composition of soil bacterial communities. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2014	76	10.1016/j.soilbio.2014.05.025	YES	Dave	
Alele PO; Sheil D; Surget-Groba Y; Shi LL; Cannon CH	How Does Conversion of Natural Tropical Rainforest Ecosystems Affect Soil Bacterial and Fungal Communities in the Nile River Watershed of Uganda?	PLOS ONE	Ugandas forests are globally important for their conservation values but are under pressure from increasing human population and consumption. In this study, we examine how conversion of natural forest affects soil bacterial and fungal communities. Comparisons in paired natural forest and human-converted sites among four locations indicated that natural forest soils consistently had higher pH, organic carbon, nitrogen, and calcium, although variation among sites was large. Despite these differences, no effect on the diversity of dominant taxa for either bacterial or fungal communities was detected, using polymerase chain reaction-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (PCR-DGGE). Composition of fungal communities did generally appear different in converted sites, but surprisingly, we did not observe a consistent pattern among sites. The spatial distribution of some taxa and community composition was associated with soil pH, organic carbon, phosphorus and sodium, suggesting that changes in soil communities were nuanced and require more robust metagenomic methods to understand the various components of the community. Given the close geographic proximity of the paired sampling sites, the similarity between natural and converted sites might be due to continued dispersal between treatments. Fungal communities showed greater environmental differentiation than bacterial communities, particularly according to soil pH. We detected biotic homogenization in converted ecosystems and substantial contribution of beta-diversity to total diversity, indicating considerable geographic structure in soil biota in these forest communities. Overall, our results suggest that soil microbial communities are relatively resilient to forest conversion and despite a substantial and consistent change in the soil environment, the effects of conversion differed widely among sites. The substantial difference in soil chemistry, with generally lower nutrient quantity in converted sites, does bring into question, how long this resilience will last.	2014	9	10.1371/journal.pone.0104818	MAYBE	Dave	
Al-Najjar MAA; Ramette A; Kuhl M; Hamza W; Klatt JM; Polerecky L	Spatial patterns and links between microbial community composition and function in cyanobacterial mats	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	We imaged reflectance and variable fluorescence in 25 cyanobacterial mats from four distant sites around the globe to assess, at different scales of resolution, spatial variabilities in the physiological parameters characterizing their photosynthetic capacity, including the absorptivity by chlorophyll a (Achi), maximum quantum yield of photosynthesis (Y-max), and light acclimation irradiance (/(k)). Generally, these parameters significantly varied within individual mats on a sub-millimeter scale, with about 2-fold higher variability in the vertical than in the horizontal direction. The average vertical profiles of Ymax and /(k) decreased with depth in the mat, while Achi exhibited a sub-surface maximum. The within-mat variability was comparable to, but often larger than, the between-sites variability, whereas the within-site variabilities (i.e., between samples from the same site) were generally lowest. When compared based on averaged values of their photosynthetic parameters, mats clustered according to their site of origin. Similar clustering was found when the community composition of the mats cyanobacterial layers were compared by automated ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis (ARISA), indicating a significant link between the microbial community composition and function. Although this link is likely the result of community adaptation to the prevailing site-specific environmental conditions, our present data is insufficient to identify the main factors determining these patterns. Nevertheless, this study demonstrates that the spatial variability in the photosynthetic capacity and light acclimation of benthic phototrophic microbial communities is at least as large on a sub-millimeter scale as it is on a global scale, and suggests that this pattern of variability scaling is similar for the microbial community composition.	2014	5	10.3389/fmicb.2014.00406	MAYBE	Dave	
Kim HM; Jung JY; Yergeau E; Hwang CY; Hinzman L; Nam S; Hong SG; Kim OS; Chun J; Lee YK	Bacterial community structure and soil properties of a subarctic tundra soil in Council, Alaska	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	The subarctic region is highly responsive and vulnerable to climate change. Understanding the structure of subarctic soil microbial communities is essential for predicting the response of the subarctic soil environment to climate change. To determine the composition of the bacterial community and its relationship with soil properties, we investigated the bacterial community structure and properties of surface soil from the moist acidic tussock tundra in Council, Alaska. We collected 70 soil samples with 25-m intervals between sampling points from 0-10 cm to 10-20 cm depths. The bacterial community was analyzed by pyrosequencing of 16S rRNA genes, and the following soil properties were analyzed: soil moisture content (MC), pH, total carbon (TC), total nitrogen (TN), and inorganic nitrogen (NH4+ and NO3-). The community compositions of the two different depths showed that Alphaproteobacteria decreased with soil depth. Among the soil properties measured, soil pH was the most significant factor correlating with bacterial community in both upper and lower-layer soils. Bacterial community similarity based on jackknifed unweighted UNIFRAC distance showed greater similarity across horizontal layers than through the vertical depth. This study showed that soil depth and pH were the most important soil properties determining bacterial community structure of the subarctic tundra soil in Council, Alaska.	2014	89	10.1111/1574-6941.12362	YES	Dave	
Lear G; Bellamy J; Case BS; Lee JE; Buckley HL	Fine-scale spatial patterns in bacterial community composition and function within freshwater ponds	ISME JOURNAL	The extent to which non-host-associated bacterial communities exhibit small-scale biogeographic patterns in their distribution remains unclear. Our investigation of biogeography in bacterial community composition and function compared samples collected across a smaller spatial scale than most previous studies conducted in freshwater. Using a grid-based sampling design, we abstracted 100+ samples located between 3.5 and 60 m apart within each of three alpine ponds. For every sample, variability in bacterial community composition was monitored using a DNA-fingerprinting methodology (automated ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis) whereas differences in bacterial community function (that is, carbon substrate utilisation patterns) were recorded from Biolog Ecoplates. The exact spatial position and dominant physicochemical conditions (for example, pH and temperature) were simultaneously recorded for each sample location. We assessed spatial differences in bacterial community composition and function within each pond and found that, on average, community composition or function differed significantly when comparing samples located >20 m apart within any pond. Variance partitioning revealed that purely spatial variation accounted for more of the observed variability in both bacterial community composition and function (range: 24-38% and 17-39%) than the combination of purely environmental variation and spatially structured environmental variation (range: 17-32% and 15-20%). Clear spatial patterns in bacterial community composition, but not function were observed within ponds. We therefore suggest that some of the observed variation in bacterial community composition is functionally redundant. We confirm that distinct bacterial communities are present across unexpectedly small spatial scales suggesting that populations separated by distances of >20 m may be dispersal limited, even within the highly continuous environment of lentic water.	2014	8	10.1038/ismej.2014.21	YES	Dave	
Tripathi BM; Lee-Cruz L; Kim M; Singh D; Go R; Shukor NAA; Husni MHA; Chun J; Adams JM	Spatial Scaling Effects on Soil Bacterial Communities in Malaysian Tropical Forests	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Spatial scaling to some extent determines biodiversity patterns in larger organisms, but its role in microbial diversity patterns is much less understood. Some studies have shown that bacterial community similarity decreases with distance, whereas others do not support this. Here, we studied soil bacterial communities of tropical rainforest in Malaysia at two spatial scales: a local scale with samples spaced every 5 m over a 150-m transect, and a regional scale with samples 1 to 1,800 km apart. PCR-amplified soil DNA for the bacterial 16S rRNA gene targeting the V1-V3 region was pyrosequenced using Roche/454 GS FLX Titanium platform. A ranked partial Mantel test showed a weak correlation between spatial distance and whole bacterial community dissimilarity, but only at the local scale. In contrast, environmental distance was highly correlated with community dissimilarity at both spatial scales, stressing the greater role of environmental variables rather than spatial distance in determining bacterial community variation at different spatial scales. Soil pH was the only environmental parameter that significantly explained the variance in bacterial community at the local scale, whereas total nitrogen and elevation were additional important factors at the regional scale. We obtained similar results at both scales when only the most abundant OTUs were analyzed. A variance partitioning analysis showed that environmental variables contributed more to bacterial community variation than spatial distance at both scales. In total, our results support a strong influence of the environment in determining bacterial community composition in the rainforests of Malaysia. However, it is possible that the remaining spatial distance effect is due to some of the myriad of other environmental factors which were not considered here, rather than dispersal limitation.	2014	68	10.1007/s00248-014-0404-7	YES	Dave	
Dong J; Shi F; Li H; Zhang XM; Hu XZ; Gong J	SSU rDNA Sequence Diversity and Seasonally Differentiated Distribution of Nanoplanktonic Ciliates in Neritic Bohai and Yellow Seas as Revealed by T-RFLP	PLOS ONE	Nanociliates have been frequently found to be important players in the marine microbial loop, however, little is known about their diversity and distribution in coastal ecosystems. We investigated the molecular diversity and distribution patterns of nanoplanktonic oligotrich and choreotrich (OC) ciliates in surface water of three neritic basins of northern China, the South Yellow Sea (SYS), North Yellow Sea (NYS), and Bohai Sea (BS) in June and November 2011. SSU rRNA gene clone libraries generated from three summertime samples (sites B38, B4 and H8) were analyzed and revealed a large novel ribotype diversity, of which many were low-abundant phylotypes belonging to the subclass Oligotrichia, but divergent from described morphospecies. Based on the data of terminal-restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) analysis of all 35 samples, we found that the T-RF richness was generally higher in the SYS than in the BS, and negatively correlated with the molar ratio of P to Si. Overall, multidimensional scaling and permutational multivariate analysis of variance of the community turnover demonstrated a distinct seasonal pattern but no basin-to-basin differentiation across all samples. Nevertheless, significant community differences among basins were recognized in the winter dataset. Mantel tests showed that the environmental factors, P: Si ratio, water temperature and concentration of dissolved oxygen (DO), determined the community across all samples. However, both biogeographic distance and environment shaped the community in winter, with DO being the most important physicochemical factor. Our results indicate that the stoichiometric ratio of P: Si is a key factor, through which the phytoplankton community may be shaped, resulting in a cascade effect on the diversity and community composition of OC nanociliates in the N-rich, Si-limited coastal surface waters, and that the Yellow Sea Warm Current drives the nanociliate community, and possibly the microbial food webs, in the coastal ecosystem in winter.	2014	9	10.1371/journal.pone.0102640	YES	Dave	
Kelly LW; Williams GJ; Barott KL; Carlson CA; Dinsdale EA; Edwards RA; Haas AF; Haynes M; Lim YW; McDole T; Nelson CE; Sala E; Sandin SA; Smith JE; Vermeij MJA; Youle M; Rohwer F	Local genomic adaptation of coral reef-associated microbiomes to gradients of natural variability and anthropogenic stressors	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	Holobionts are species-specific associations between macro-and microorganisms. On coral reefs, the benthic coverage of coral and algal holobionts varies due to natural and anthropogenic forcings. Different benthic macroorganisms are predicted to have specific microbiomes. In contrast, local environmental factors are predicted to select for specific metabolic pathways in microbes. To reconcile these two predictions, we hypothesized that adaptation of microbiomes to local conditions is facilitated by the horizontal transfer of genes responsible for specific metabolic capabilities. To test this hypothesis, microbial metagenomes were sequenced from 22 coral reefs at 11 Line Islands in the central Pacific that together span a wide range of biogeochemical and anthropogenic influences. Consistent with our hypothesis, the percent cover of major benthic functional groups significantly correlated with particular microbial taxa. Reefs with higher coral cover had a coral microbiome with higher abundances of Alphaproteobacteria (such as Rhodobacterales and Sphingomonadales), whereas microbiomes of algae-dominated reefs had higher abundances of Gammaproteobacteria (such as Alteromonadales, Pseudomonadales, and Vibrionales), Betaproteobacteria, and Bacteriodetes. In contrast to taxa, geography was the strongest predictor of microbial community metabolism. Microbial communities on reefs with higher nutrient availability (e. g., equatorial upwelling zones) were enriched in genes involved in nutrient-related metabolisms (e. g., nitrate and nitrite ammonification, Ton/Tol transport, etc.). On reefs further from the equator, microbes had more genes encoding chlorophyll biosynthesis and photosystems I/II. These results support the hypothesis that core microbiomes are determined by holobiont macroorganisms, and that those core taxa adapt to local conditions by selecting for advantageous metabolic genes.	2014	111	10.1073/pnas.1403319111	YES	Dave	
Li CP; Lai QL; Li GZ; Liu Y; Sun FQ; Shao ZZ	Multilocus Sequence Analysis for the Assessment of Phylogenetic Diversity and Biogeography in Hyphomonas Bacteria from Diverse Marine Environments	PLOS ONE	Hyphomonas, a genus of budding, prosthecate bacteria, are primarily found in the marine environment. Seven type strains, and 35 strains from our collections of Hyphomonas, isolated from the Pacific Ocean, Atlantic Ocean, Arctic Ocean, South China Sea and the Baltic Sea, were investigated in this study using multilocus sequence analysis (MLSA). The phylogenetic structure of these bacteria was evaluated using the 16S rRNA gene, and five housekeeping genes (leuA, clpA, pyrH, gatA and rpoD) as well as their concatenated sequences. Our results showed that each housekeeping gene and the concatenated gene sequence all yield a higher taxonomic resolution than the 16S rRNA gene. The 42 strains assorted into 12 groups. Each group represents an independent species, which was confirmed by virtual DNA-DNA hybridization (DDH) estimated from draft genome sequences. Hyphomonas MLSA interspecies and intraspecies boundaries ranged from 93.3% to 96.3%, similarity calculated using a combined DDH and MLSA approach. Furthermore, six novel species (groups I, II, III, IV, V and XII) of the genus Hyphomonas exist, based on sequence similarities of the MLSA and DDH values. Additionally, we propose that the leuA gene (93.0% sequence similarity across our dataset) alone could be used as a fast and practical means for identifying species within Hyphomonas. Finally, Hyphomonas geographic distribution shows that strains from the same area tend to cluster together as discrete species. This study provides a framework for the discrimination and phylogenetic analysis of the genus Hyphomonas for the first time, and will contribute to a more thorough understanding of the biological and ecological roles of this genus.	2014	9	10.1371/journal.pone.0101394	MAYBE	Dave	
Pagaling E; Yang K; Yan T	Pyrosequencing reveals correlations between extremely acidophilic bacterial communities with hydrogen sulphide concentrations, pH and inert polymer coatings at concrete sewer crown surfaces	JOURNAL OF APPLIED MICROBIOLOGY	Aims: To investigate the acidophilic bacterial communities involved in microbially induced concrete corrosion (MICC). Methods and Results: Our study sites located downstream from a forced main provided a unique opportunity to study the microbial communities involved in MICC under different environmental conditions (gradients of atmospheric H2S, sulphate concentration and pH) and under pipe modifications (coated vs uncoated). Bacterial cell density estimated by both cultivation-and DNA-based methods was low in the corroded sewer samples. Pyrosequencing and cloning showed that Mycobacterium and Acidithiobacillus dominated the acidophilic microbial communities. Methylacidiphilum was also dominant in samples where methane was detected. Correlation analysis indicated that Mycobacterium and Acidithiobacillus were significantly affected by pH and that Mycobacterium could better withstand highly acidic conditions compared to Acidithiobacillus. Conclusions: Communities dominated by Mycobacterium favoured conditions in the lined sewer pipes, while communities with a higher relative abundance of Acidithiobacillus favoured the unlined sewer pipes. Significance and Impact of the Study: Identifying the key micro-organisms involved in MICC and knowing how they interact with their environment are essential aspects for identifying steps towards concrete corrosion management.	2014	117	10.1111/jam.12491	MAYBE	Dave	
Delgado-Serrano L; Lopez G; Bohorquez LC; Bustos JR; Rubiano C; Osorio-Forero C; Junca H; Baena S; Zambrano MM	Neotropical Andes hot springs harbor diverse and distinct planktonic microbial communities	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Microbial explorations of hot springs have led to remarkable discoveries and improved our understanding of life under extreme conditions. The Andean Mountains harbor diverse habitats, including an extensive chain of geothermal heated water sources. In this study, we describe and compare the planktonic microbial communities present in five high-mountain hot springs with distinct geochemical characteristics, at varying altitudes and geographical locations in the Colombian Andes. The diversity and structure of the microbial communities were assessed by pyrosequencing the V5 - V6 region of the 16S rRNA gene. The planktonic communities varied in terms of diversity indexes and were dominated by the bacterial phyla Proteobacteria, Aquificae, Chloroflexi, Cyanobacteria, Firmicutes, Nitrospirae, and Thermotogae, with site-specific bacterial taxa also observed in some cases. Statistical analyses showed that these microbial communities were distinct from one another and that they clustered in a manner consistent with physicochemical parameters of the environment sampled. Multivariate analysis suggested that pH and sulfate were among the main variables influencing population structure and diversity. The results show that despite their geographical proximity and some shared geochemical characteristics, there were few shared operational taxonomic units (OTUs) and that community structure was influenced mainly by environmental factors that have resulted in different microbial populations.	2014	89	10.1111/1574-6941.12333	MAYBE	Dave	
Bonito G; Reynolds H; Robeson MS; Nelson J; Hodkinson BP; Tuskan G; Schadt CW; Vilgalys R	Plant host and soil origin influence fungal and bacterial assemblages in the roots of woody plants	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	Microbial communities in plant roots provide critical links between above- and belowground processes in terrestrial ecosystems. Variation in root communities has been attributed to plant host effects and microbial host preferences, as well as to factors pertaining to soil conditions, microbial biogeography and the presence of viable microbial propagules. To address hypotheses regarding the influence of plant host and soil biogeography on root fungal and bacterial communities, we designed a trap-plant bioassay experiment. Replicate Populus, Quercus and Pinus plants were grown in three soils originating from alternate field sites. Fungal and bacterial community profiles in the root of each replicate were assessed through multiplex 454 amplicon sequencing of four loci (i.e., 16S, SSU, ITS, LSU rDNA). Soil origin had a larger effect on fungal community composition than did host species, but the opposite was true for bacterial communities. Populus hosted the highest diversity of rhizospheric fungi and bacteria. Root communities on Quercus and Pinus were more similar to each other than to Populus. Overall, fungal root symbionts appear to be more constrained by dispersal and biogeography than by host availability.	2014	23	10.1111/mec.12821	MAYBE	Dave	
Barberan A; Ramirez KS; Leff JW; Bradford MA; Wall DH; Fierer N	Why are some microbes more ubiquitous than others? Predicting the habitat breadth of soil bacteria	ECOLOGY LETTERS	Identifying the traits that determine spatial distributions can be challenging when studying organisms, like bacteria, for which phenotypic information is limited or non-existent. However, genomic data provide another means to infer traits and determine the ecological attributes that account for differences in distributions. We determined the spatial distributions of similar to 124000 soil bacterial taxa across a 3.41km2 area to determine whether we could use phylogeny and/or genomic traits to explain differences in habitat breadth. We found that occupancy was strongly correlated with environmental range; taxa that were more ubiquitous were found across a broader range of soil conditions. Across the similar to 500 taxa for which genomic information was available, genomic traits were more useful than phylogeny alone in explaining the variation in habitat breadth; bacteria with larger genomes and more metabolic versatility were more likely to have larger environmental and geographical distributions. Just as trait-based approaches have proven to be so useful for understanding the distributions of animals and plants, we demonstrate that we can use genomic information to infer microbial traits that are difficult to measure directly and build trait-based predictions of the biogeographical patterns exhibited by microbes.	2014	17	10.1111/ele.12282	YES	Dave	
Boehm AB; Yamahara KM; Sassoubre LM	Diversity and Transport of Microorganisms in Intertidal Sands of the California Coast	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Forced by tides and waves, large volumes of seawater are flushed through the beach daily. Organic material and nutrients in seawater are remineralized and cycled as they pass through the beach. Microorganisms are responsible for most of the biogeochemical cycling in the beach; however, few studies have characterized their diversity in intertidal sands, and little work has characterized the extent to which microbes are transported between different compartments of the beach. The present study uses nextgeneration massively parallel sequencing to characterize the microbial community present at 49 beaches along the coast of California. In addition, we characterize the transport of microorganisms within intertidal sands using laboratory column experiments. We identified extensive diversity in the beach sands. Nearly 1,000 unique taxa were identified in sands from 10 or more unique beaches, suggesting the existence of a group of cosmopolitan sand microorganisms. A biogeographical analysis identified a taxon-distance relationship among the beaches. In addition, sands with similar grain size, organic carbon content, exposed to a similar wave climate, and having the same degree of anthropogenic influence tended to have similar microbial communities. Column experiments identified microbes readily mobilized by seawater infiltrating through unsaturated intertidal sands. The ease with which microbes were mobilized suggests that intertidal sands may represent a reservoir of bacteria that seed the beach aquifer where they may partake in biogeochemical cycling.	2014	80	10.1128/AEM.00513-14	YES	Dave	
Maranon E; Cermeno P; Huete-Ortega M; Lopez-Sandoval DC; Mourino-Carballido B; Rodriguez-Ramos T	Resource Supply Overrides Temperature as a Controlling Factor of Marine Phytoplankton Growth	PLOS ONE	The universal temperature dependence of metabolic rates has been used to predict how ocean biology will respond to ocean warming. Determining the temperature sensitivity of phytoplankton metabolism and growth is of special importance because this group of organisms is responsible for nearly half of global primary production, sustains most marine food webs, and contributes to regulate the exchange of CO2 between the ocean and the atmosphere. Phytoplankton growth rates increase with temperature under optimal growth conditions in the laboratory, but it is unclear whether the same degree of temperature dependence exists in nature, where resources are often limiting. Here we use concurrent measurements of phytoplankton biomass and carbon fixation rates in polar, temperate and tropical regions to determine the role of temperature and resource supply in controlling the large-scale variability of in situ metabolic rates. We identify a biogeographic pattern in phytoplankton metabolic rates, which increase from the oligotrophic subtropical gyres to temperate regions and then coastal waters. Variability in phytoplankton growth is driven by changes in resource supply and appears to be independent of seawater temperature. The lack of temperature sensitivity of realized phytoplankton growth is consistent with the limited applicability of Arrhenius enzymatic kinetics when substrate concentrations are low. Our results suggest that, due to widespread resource limitation in the ocean, the direct effect of sea surface warming upon phytoplankton growth and productivity may be smaller than anticipated.	2014	9	10.1371/journal.pone.0099312	MAYBE	Dave	
Samuni-Blank M; Izhaki I; Laviad S; Bar-Massada A; Gerchman Y; Halpern M	The Role of Abiotic Environmental Conditions and Herbivory in Shaping Bacterial Community Composition in Floral Nectar	PLOS ONE	Identifying the processes that drive community assembly has long been a central theme in ecology. For microorganisms, a traditional prevailing hypothesis states that everything is everywhere, but the environment selects. Although the bacterial community in floral nectar may be affected by both atmosphere (air-borne bacteria) and animals as dispersal vectors, the environmental and geographic factors that shape microbial communities in floral nectar are unknown. We studied culturable bacterial communities in Asphodelus aestivus floral nectar and in its typical herbivorous bug Capsodes infuscatus, along an aridity gradient. Bacteria were sampled from floral nectar and bugs at four sites, spanning a geographical range of 200 km from Mediterranean to semi-arid conditions, under open and bagged flower treatments. In agreement with the niche assembly hypothesis, the differences in bacterial community compositions were explained by differences in abiotic environmental conditions. These results suggest that microbial model systems are useful for addressing macro-ecological questions. In addition, similar bacterial communities were found in the nectar and on the surface of the bugs that were documented visiting the flowers. These similarities imply that floral nectar bacteria dispersal is shaped not only by air borne bacteria and nectar consumers as previously reported, but also by visiting vectors like the mirid bugs.	2014	9	10.1371/journal.pone.0099107	MAYBE	Dave	
Muller AL; de Rezende JR; Hubert CRJ; Kjeldsen KU; Lagkouvardos I; Berry D; Jorgensen BB; Loy A	Endospores of thermophilic bacteria as tracers of microbial dispersal by ocean currents	ISME JOURNAL	Microbial biogeography is influenced by the combined effects of passive dispersal and environmental selection, but the contribution of either factor can be difficult to discern. As thermophilic bacteria cannot grow in the cold seabed, their inactive spores are not subject to environmental selection. We therefore conducted a global experimental survey using thermophilic endospores that are passively deposited by sedimentation to the cold seafloor as tracers to study the effect of dispersal by ocean currents on the biogeography of marine microorganisms. Our analysis of 81 different marine sediments from around the world identified 146 species-level 16S rRNA phylotypes of endospore-forming, thermophilic Firmicutes. Phylotypes showed various patterns of spatial distribution in the world oceans and were dispersal-limited to different degrees. Co-occurrence of several phylotypes in locations separated by great distances (west of Svalbard, the Baltic Sea and the Gulf of California) demonstrated a widespread but not ubiquitous distribution. In contrast, Arctic regions with water masses that are relatively isolated from global ocean circulation (Baffin Bay and east of Svalbard) were characterized by low phylotype richness and different compositions of phylotypes. The observed distribution pattern of thermophilic endospores in marine sediments suggests that the impact of passive dispersal on marine microbial biogeography is controlled by the connectivity of local water masses to ocean circulation.	2014	8	10.1038/ismej.2013.225	MAYBE	Dave	
Andersson MGI; Berga M; Lindstrom ES; Langenheder S	The spatial structure of bacterial communities is influenced by historical environmental conditions	ECOLOGY	The spatial structure of ecological communities, including that of bacteria, is often influenced by species sorting by contemporary environmental conditions. Moreover, historical processes, i.e., ecological and evolutionary events that have occurred at some point in the past, such as dispersal limitation, drift, priority effects, or selection by past environmental conditions, can be important, but are generally investigated much less. Here, we conducted a field study using 16 rock pools, where we specifically compared the importance of past vs. contemporary environmental conditions for bacterial community structure by correlating present differences in bacterial community composition among pools to environmental conditions measured on the same day, as well as to those measured 2, 4, 6, and 8 d earlier. The results prove that selection by past environmental conditions exists, since we were able to show that bacterial communities are, to a greater extent, an imprint of past compared to contemporary environmental conditions. We suggest that this is the result of a combination of different mechanisms, including priority effects that cause rapid adaptation to new environmental conditions of taxa that have been initially selected by past environmental conditions, and slower rates of turnover in community composition compared to environmental conditions.	2014	95	10.1890/13-1300.1	MAYBE	Dave	
Zhang Y; Zhao ZH; Dai MH; Jiao NZ; Herndl GJ	Drivers shaping the diversity and biogeography of total and active bacterial communities in the South China Sea	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	To test the hypothesis that different drivers shape the diversity and biogeography of the total and active bacterial community, we examined the bacterial community composition along two transects, one from the inner Pearl River estuary to the open waters of the South China Sea (SCS) and the other from the Luzon Strait to the SCS basin, using 454 pyrosequencing of the 16S rRNA and 16S rRNA gene (V1-3 regions) and thereby characterizing the active and total bacterial community, respectively. The diversity and biogeographic patterns differed substantially between the active and total bacterial communities. Although the composition of both the total and active bacterial community was strongly correlated with environmental factors and weakly correlated with geographic distance, the active bacterial community displayed higher environmental sensitivity than the total community and particularly a greater distance effect largely caused by the active assemblage from deep waters. The 16S rRNA vs. rDNA relationships indicated that the active bacteria were low in relative abundance in the SCS. This might be due to a high competition between active bacterial taxa as indicated by our community network models. Based on these analyses, we speculate that high competition could cause some dispersal limitation of the active bacterial community resulting in a distinct distance-decay relationship. Altogether, our results indicated that the biogeographic distribution of bacteria in the SCS is the result of both environmental control and distance decay.	2014	23	10.1111/mec.12739	YES	Dave	
Youngblut ND; DellAringa M; Whitaker RJ	Differentiation between sediment and hypolimnion methanogen communities in humic lakes	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	The traditional view of carbon cycling within the pelagic zone of freshwater lakes has consisted of methane production within the anoxic sediment, followed by diffusive flux and ebullition through the water column. Methanogenic archaea have been shown to be present within the water columns of freshwater lakes; however, little is known about whether these methanogenic communities are distinct from those in the sediment or how these communities change over space and time. We used the methanogen-specific phylogenetic marker mcrA to perform a 3-year study focusing on the community structure of methanogens within the sediment and anoxic hypolimnion water layer of five humic lakes in WI, USA. The hypolimnion and sediment communities were distinct in composition, richness and phylogenetic diversity. Hypolimnion communities displayed a temporally stable biogeographical pattern among lakes, which was driven by both lake-specific environmental variables and barriers to dispersal. We conclude that the hypolimnion comprised communities of methanogens that are distinct from those in the sediment, differentiated among lakes, and likely have unique ecological roles and evolutionary trajectories in these anaerobic environments.	2014	16	10.1111/1462-2920.12330	MAYBE	Dave	
Kim M; Kim WS; Tripathi BM; Adams J	Distinct Bacterial Communities Dominate Tropical and Temperate Zone Leaf Litter	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Little is known of the bacterial community of tropical rainforest leaf litter and how it might differ from temperate forest leaf litter and from the soils underneath. We sampled leaf litter in a similarly advanced stage of decay, and for comparison, we also sampled the surface layer of soil, at three tropical forest sites in Malaysia and four temperate forest sites in South Korea. Illumina sequencing targeting partial bacterial 16S ribosomal ribonucleic acid (rRNA) gene revealed that the bacterial community composition of both temperate and tropical litter is quite distinct from the soils underneath. Litter in both temperate and tropical forest was dominated by Proteobacteria and Actinobacteria, while soil is dominated by Acidobacteria and, to a lesser extent, Proteobacteria. However, bacterial communities of temperate and tropical litter clustered separately from one another on an ordination. The soil bacterial community structures were also distinctive to each climatic zone, suggesting that there must be a climate-specific biogeographical pattern in bacterial community composition. The differences were also found in the level of diversity. The temperate litter has a higher operational taxonomic unit (OTU) diversity than the tropical litter, paralleling the trend in soil diversity. Overall, it is striking that the difference in community composition between the leaf litter and the soil a few centimeters underneath is about the same as that between leaf litter in tropical and temperate climates, thousands of kilometers apart. However, one substantial difference was that the leaf litter of two tropical forest sites, Meranti and Forest Research Institute Malaysia (FRIM), was overwhelmingly dominated by the single genus Burkholderia, at 37 and 23 % of reads, respectively. The 454 sequencing result showed that most Burkholderia species in tropical leaf litter belong to nonpathogenic plant beneficial lineages. The differences from the temperate zone in the bacterial community of tropical forest litter may be partly a product of its differing chemistry, although the unvarying climate might also play a role, as might interactions with other organisms such as fungi. The single genus Burkholderia may be seen as potentially playing a major role in decomposition and nutrient cycling in tropical forests, but apparently not in temperate forests.	2014	67	10.1007/s00248-014-0380-y	YES	Dave	
Talbot JM; Bruns TD; Taylor JW; Smith DP; Branco S; Glassman SI; Erlandson S; Vilgalys R; Liao HL; Smith ME; Peay KG	Endemism and functional convergence across the North American soil mycobiome	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	Identifying the ecological processes that structure communities and the consequences for ecosystem function is a central goal of ecology. The recognition that fungi, bacteria, and viruses control key ecosystem functions has made microbial communities a major focus of this field. Because many ecological processes are apparent only at particular spatial or temporal scales, a complete understanding of the linkages between microbial community, environment, and function requires analysis across a wide range of scales. Here, we map the biological and functional geography of soil fungi from local to continental scales and show that the principal ecological processes controlling community structure and function operate at different scales. Similar to plants or animals, most soil fungi are endemic to particular bioregions, suggesting that factors operating at large spatial scales, like dispersal limitation or climate, are the first-order determinants of fungal community structure in nature. By contrast, soil extracellular enzyme activity is highly convergent across bioregions and widely differing fungal communities. Instead, soil enzyme activity is correlated with local soil environment and distribution of fungal traits within the community. The lack of structure-function relationships for soil fungal communities at continental scales indicates a high degree of functional redundancy among fungal communities in global biogeochemical cycles.	2014	111	10.1073/pnas.1402584111	MAYBE	Dave	
Logares R; Audic S; Bass D; Bittner L; Boutte C; Christen R; Claverie JM; Decelle J; Dolan JR; Dunthorn M; Edvardsen B; Gobet A; Kooistra WHCF; Mahe F; Not F; Ogata H; Pawlowski J; Pernice MC; Romac S; Shalchian-Tabrizi K; Simon N; Stoeck T; Santini S; Siano R; Wincker P; Zingone A; Richards TA; de Vargas C; Massana R	Patterns of Rare and Abundant Marine Microbial Eukaryotes	CURRENT BIOLOGY	Background: Biological communities are normally composed of a few abundant and many rare species. This pattern is particularly prominent in microbial communities, in which most constituent taxa are usually extremely rare. Although abundant and rare subcommunities may present intrinsic characteristics that could be crucial for understanding community dynamics and ecosystem functioning, microbiologists normally do not differentiate between them. Here, we investigate abundant and rare subcommunities of marine microbial eukaryotes, a crucial group of organisms that remains among the least-explored biodiversity components of the biosphere. We surveyed surface waters of six separate coastal locations in Europe, independently considering the picoplankton, nanoplankton, and microplankton/mesoplankton organismal size fractions. Results: Deep Illumina sequencing of the 18S rRNA indicated that the abundant regional community was mostly structured by organismal size fraction, whereas the rare regional community was mainly structured by geographic origin. However, some abundant and rare taxa presented similar biogeography, pointing to spatiotemporal structure in the rare microeukaryote biosphere. Abundant and rare subcommunities presented regular proportions across samples, indicating similar species-abundance distributions despite taxonomic compositional variation. Several taxa were abundant in one location and rare in other locations, suggesting large oscillations in abundance. The substantial amount of metabolically active lineages found in the rare biosphere suggests that this sub-community constitutes a diversity reservoir that can respond rapidly to environmental change. Conclusions: We propose that marine planktonic microeukaryote assemblages incorporate dynamic and metabolically active abundant and rare subcommunities, with contrasting structuring patterns but fairly regular proportions, across space and time.	2014	24	10.1016/j.cub.2014.02.050	MAYBE	Dave	
Sun B; Wang F; Jiang YJ; Li Y; Dong ZX; Li ZP; Zhang XX	A long- term field experiment of soil transplantation demonstrating the role of contemporary geographic separation in shaping soil microbial community structure	ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION	The spatial patterns of microbial communities are largely determined by the combined effects of historical contingencies and contemporary environmental disturbances, but their relative importance remains poorly understood. Empirical biogeographic data currently available are mostly based on the traditional method of observational survey, which typically involves comparing indigenous microbial communities across spatial scales. Here, we report a long-term soil transplantation experiment, whereby the same two soils (red Acrisol and purple Cambisol from Yingtan) were placed into two geographic locations of 1000km apart (i.e., Yingtan in the mid-subtropical region and Fengqiu in warm-temperate region; both located in China). Twenty years after the transplantation, the resulting soil microbial communities were subject to high-throughput 454 pyrosequencing analysis of 16S and 18S rRNA genes. Additionally, bacteria and archaea involved in nitrogen cycling were estimated using clone library analysis of four genes: archaeal amoA, bacterial amoA, nirK, and nifH. Data of subsequent phylogenetic analysis show that bacteria, fungi, and other microbial eukaryotes, as well as the nitrogen cycling genes, are grouped primarily by the factor of geographic location rather than soil type. Moreover, a shift of microbial communities toward those in local soil (i.e., Chao soil in Fengqiu) has been observed. The results thus suggest that the historical effects persistent in the soil microbial communities can be largely erased by contemporary disturbance within a short period of 20years, implicating weak effects of historical contingencies on the structure and composition of microbial communities in the soil.	2014	4	10.1002/ece3.1006	MAYBE	Dave	
Vaz ABM; Fontenla S; Rocha FS; Brandao LR; Vieira MLA; De Garcia V; Goes-Neto A; Rosa CA	Fungal endophyte beta-diversity associated with Myrtaceae species in an Andean Patagonian forest (Argentina) and an Atlantic forest (Brazil)	FUNGAL ECOLOGY	The biogeography of microorganisms is poorly understood and how microbial diversity is structured is still an open debate. We investigated the processes underlying the fungal endophyte assemblages of phylogenetically related Myrtae host tree species at different spatial scales: regional, 101-5 000 km; local, 0-100 km; and microscale, 0-1 km. A total of 939 isolates was obtained and assigned to 51 distinct MOTUs based on the sequencing of the nrITS region. At regional scales, geographic distance was responsible for explaining the fungal community similarity, while, at a local scale, it was the environmental distance. Moreover, fungal endophytes exhibit preference in the colonization of Luma apiculata but not for Myrceugenia ovata var. nanophylla. Our results suggest that fungal endophytes are not randomly distributed and are influenced by both geographic and environment distances depending on the spatial scale analysed. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd and The British Mycological Society. All rights reserved.	2014	8	10.1016/j.funeco.2013.12.008	YES	Dave	
Aguilar M; Fiore-Donno AM; Lado C; Cavalier-Smith T	Using environmental niche models to test the everything is everywhere hypothesis for Badhamia	ISME JOURNAL	It is often discussed whether the biogeography of free-living protists is better explained by the everything is everywhere(EiE) hypothesis, which postulates that only ecology drives their distribution, or by the alternative hypothesis of moderate endemicity in which geographic barriers can limit their dispersal. To formally test this, it would be necessary not only to find organisms restricted to a geographical area but also to check for their presence in any other place with a similar ecology. We propose the use of environmental niche models to generate and test null EiE distributions. Here we have analysed the distribution of 18S rDNA variants (ribotypes) of the myxomycete Badhamia melanospora (belonging to the protozoan phylum Amoebozoa) using 125 specimens from 91 localities. Two geographically structured groups of ribotypes congruent with slight morphological differences in the spores can be distinguished. One group comprises all populations from Argentina and Chile, and the other is formed by populations from North America together with human-introduced populations from other parts of the world. Environmental climatic niche models constructed separately for the two groups have significant differences, but show several overlapping areas. However, only specimens from one group were found in an intensively surveyed area in South America where both niche models overlap. It can be concluded that everything is not everywhere for B. melanospora. This taxon constitutes a complex formed by at least two cryptic species that probably diverged allopatrically in North and South America.	2014	8	10.1038/ismej.2013.183	YES	Dave	
Regan KM; Nunan N; Boeddinghaus RS; Baumgartner V; Berner D; Boch S; Oelmann Y; Overmann J; Prati D; Schloter M; Schmitt B; Sorkau E; Steffens M; Kandeler E; Marhan S	Seasonal controls on grassland microbial biogeography: Are they governed by plants, abiotic properties or both?	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	Temporal dynamics create unique and often ephemeral conditions that can influence soil microbial biogeography at different spatial scales. This study investigated the relation between decimeter to meter spatial variability of soil microbial community structure, plant diversity, and soil properties at six dates from April through November. We also explored the robustness of these interactions over time. An historically unfertilized, unplowed grassland in southwest Germany was selected to characterize how seasonal variability in the composition of plant communities and substrate quality changed the biogeography of soil microorganisms at the plot scale (10 m x 10 m). Microbial community spatial structure was positively correlated with the local environment, i.e. physical and chemical soil properties, in spring and autumn, while the density and diversity of plants had an additional effect in the summer period. Spatial relationships among plant and microbial communities were detected only in the early summer and autumn periods when aboveground biomass increase was most rapid and its influence on soil microbial communities was greatest due to increased demand by plants for nutrients. Individual properties exhibited varying degrees of spatial structure over the season. Differential responses of Gram positive and Gram negative bacterial communities to seasonal shifts in soil nutrients were detected. We concluded that spatial distribution patterns of soil microorganisms change over a season and that chemical soil properties are more important controlling factors than plant density and diversity. Finer spatial resolution, such as the mm to cm scale, as well as taxonomic resolution of microbial groups, could help determine the importance of plant species density, composition, and growth stage in shaping microbial community composition and spatial patterns. (C) 2014 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2014	71	10.1016/j.soilbio.2013.12.024	MAYBE	Dave	
Landa BB; Montes-Borrego M; Aranda S; Soriano MA; Gomez JA; Navas-Cortes JA	Soil factors involved in the diversity and structure of soil bacterial communities in commercial organic olive orchards in Southern Spain	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY REPORTS	Nowadays, there is a tendency in olive production systems to reduce tillage or keep a vegetative cover to reduce soil erosion and degradation. However, there is scarce information on the effects of different soil management systems (SMS) in soil bacterial community composition of olive groves. In this study, we have evaluated the effects of soil type and different SMS implemented to control weeds in the structure and diversity of bacterial communities of 58 soils in the two geographic areas that best represent the organic olive production systems in Spain. Bacterial community composition assessed by frequency and intensity of occurrence of terminal restriction profiles (TRFs) derived from terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) analysis of amplified 16S ribosomal deoxyribonucleic acid were strongly correlated with soil type/field site (Eutric/Calcaric) that differed mainly in soil particle size distribution and soil pH, followed by a strong effect of SMS, in that order. Canonical discriminant (CD) analysis of TRFs properly classified all of the olive orchard soils as belonging to their respective soil type or SMS. Furthermore, only a small set of TRFs were enough to clearly and significantly differentiate soil samples according to soil type or SMS. Those specific TRFs could be used as bioindicators to assess the effect of changes in SMS aimed to enhance soil quality in olive production systems.	2014	6	10.1111/1758-2229.12148	MAYBE	Dave	
Adams HE; Crump BC; Kling GW	Metacommunity dynamics of bacteria in an arctic lake: the impact of species sorting and mass effects on bacterial production and biogeography	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	To understand mechanisms linking ecosystem processes and microbial diversity in freshwater ecosystems, bacterial productivity and the metacommunity dynamics of species sorting and mass effects were investigated in an 18 ha headwater lake in northern Alaska. On most sampling dates, the phylogenetic composition of bacterial communities in inflowing streams (inlets) was strikingly different than that in the lake and the outflowing stream (outlet) (16S DGGE fingerprinting), demonstrating the shift in composition that occurs as these communities transit the lake. Outlet and downstream communities were also more productive than inlet and upstream communities (C-14-leucine incorporation). Inlet bacteria transplanted to the outlet stream in dialysis bags were equally or less productive than control bacteria, suggesting that the inlet bacteria are capable of growing under lake conditions, but do not remain abundant because of species sorting in the lake. Outlet bacteria (representative of epilimnetic bacteria) transplanted to the inlet stream were less productive than control bacteria, suggesting that lake bacteria are not as well adapted to growing under inlet conditions. Based on water density, inlet stream water and bacteria generally entered the lake at the base of the epilimnion. However, during low to medium flow in the inlet stream the residence time of the epilimnion was too long relative to bacterial doubling times for these allochthonous bacteria to have a mass effect on the composition of outlet bacteria. The highest community similarity between inlet and outlet bacteria was detected after a large rain event in 2003, with over 61% similarity (average non-storm similarities were 39 +/- 8%). While mass effects may be important during large storm events, species sorting appears to be the predominant mechanism structuring bacterial communities within the lake, leading to the assembly of a lake community that has lost some ability to function in stream habitats.	2014	5	10.3389/fmicb.2014.00082	MAYBE	Dave	
Xiong JB; Ye XS; Wang K; Chen HP; Hu CJ; Zhu JL; Zhang DM	Biogeography of the Sediment Bacterial Community Responds to a Nitrogen Pollution Gradient in the East China Sea	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Patterns of microbial distribution represent the integrated effects of historical and biological processes and are thus a central issue in ecology. However, there is still active debate on whether dispersal limitation contributes to microbial diversification in strongly connected systems. In this study, sediment samples were collected along a transect representing a variety of seawater pollution levels in the East China Sea. We investigated whether changes in sediment bacterial community structures would indicate the effects of the pollution gradient and of dispersal limitation. Our results showed consistent shifts in bacterial communities in response to pollution. More geographically distant sites had more dissimilar communities (r = -0.886, P < 0.001) in this strongly connected sediment ecosystem. A variance analysis based on partitioning by principal coordinates of neighbor matrices (PCNM) showed that spatial distance (dispersal limitation) contributed more to bacterial community variation (8.2%) than any other factor, although the environmental factors explained more variance when combined (11.2%). In addition, potential indicator taxa (primarily affiliated with Deltaproteobacteria and Gammaproteobacteria) were identified; these taxa characterized the pollution gradient. This study provides direct evidence that dispersal limitation exists in a strongly connected marine sediment ecosystem and that candidate indicator taxa can be applied to evaluate coastal pollution levels.	2014	80	10.1128/AEM.03731-13	YES	Dave	
Liu JJ; Sui YY; Yu ZH; Shi Y; Chu HY; Jin J; Liu XB; Wang GH	High throughput sequencing analysis of biogeographical distribution of bacterial communities in the black soils of northeast China	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	Black soils (Mollisols) are one of the most important soil resources for maintaining food security of China and are mainly distributed in northeast China. To understand which environmental factors influence the microbial communities and how the communities are distributed in the black soils, we collected 26 soil samples with different soil carbon contents across the black soil zone in northeast China, and the soil bacterial community compositions were estimated using high resolution bar-coded pyrosequencing. A total of 355,813 bacterial 16S rDNA sequences were obtained, which were classified into at least 35 bacterial groups. The dominant groups across all samples (>5% of all sequences) were Acidobacteria, Actinobacteria, Proteobacteria, Bacteroidetes, Chloroflexi, Gemmatimonadetes and Planctomycetes. The composition and diversity of the soil bacterial community were dominantly affected by both soil pH and soil total carbon content, and the effect of soil pH was stronger than that of soil carbon content. Variance partitioning analysis showed that geographic distance contributed 14.75% of the bacterial community variation, and soil environmental factors explained approximately 37.52% of the variation. Pairwise analysis showed that a relatively higher diversity of the bacterial community was observed at lower latitudes, suggesting that a latitudinal diversity gradient of the bacterial community might be present in the black soil zone. In general, our results indicated that contemporary factors, such as soil pH and soil carbon content, were more important than the historical factor of geographic distance in shaping the bacterial community in the black soil zone in northeast China. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2014	70	10.1016/j.soilbio.2013.12.014	YES	Dave	
Hu AY; Yang XY; Chen NW; Hou LY; Ma Y; Yu CP	Response of bacterial communities to environmental changes in a mesoscale subtropical watershed, Southeast China	SCIENCE OF THE TOTAL ENVIRONMENT	This study used 16S rRNA gene-based pyrosequencing (16S-pyrotag) to investigate both planktonic and benthic bacterial communities in two main tributaries (North River and West River) of the Jiulong River Watershed (JRW), a mesoscale subtropical watershed that has experienced intensive human perturbation in recent decades. The results of 16S-pyrotag showed that benthic bacterial communities were clearly more diverse and uniform than surface bacterioplankton communities. The results of taxonomic assignments indicated that Betaproteobacteria, Actinobacteria and Firmicutes were significantly more abundant in planktonic than in benthic communities, whereas the relative abundances of Acidobacteria, Delta-, Gammaproteobacteria, Chloroflexi and Nitrospira were higher in sediment than in water samples. In particular, several sewer- and fecal-pollution bacterial indicators were observed in water samples, implying that the water bodies of the JRW were contaminated by fecal pollution. Using the typical freshwater bacteria (TFB) taxonomic framework, 57.6 +/- 10%, 27.6 +/- 10.9% and 10.4 +/- 6.9% of sequences recovered from planktonic communities could be assigned to lineages, clades and tribes of TFB, respectively. The relatively lower abundance of TFB implied that some unknown or unique autochthonous bacterioplankton populations occurred in the JRW. The principal coordinate analysis (PCoA) and one way analysis of similarity (ANOSIM) analysis demonstrated that planktonic bacterial community structures were significantly different between North River and West River, whereas benthic communities from these two tributaries were grouped together. Multivariate statistical analysis revealed that nutrient concentrations and stoichiometry were the key drivers of both alpha- and beta-diversity patterns of bacterioplankton communities. Overall, our results indicate that the diversity, composition and structure of planktonic bacterial communities are sensitive to water chemistry (e.g., nutrient concentrations and stoichiometry) in the JRW, and therefore can serve as a good sentinel of environmental changes in this watershed. (C) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2014	472	10.1016/j.scitotenv.2013.11.097	MAYBE	Dave	
Andrus JM; Porter MD; Rodriguez LF; Kuehlhorn T; Cooke RAC; Zhang YH; Kent AD; Zilles JL	Spatial Variation in the Bacterial and Denitrifying Bacterial Community in a Biofilter Treating Subsurface Agricultural Drainage	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Denitrifying biofilters can remove agricultural nitrates from subsurface drainage, reducing nitrate pollution that contributes to coastal hypoxic zones. The performance and reliability of natural and engineered systems dependent upon microbially mediated processes, such as the denitrifying biofilters, can be affected by the spatial structure of their microbial communities. Furthermore, our understanding of the relationship between microbial community composition and function is influenced by the spatial distribution of samples. In this study we characterized the spatial structure of bacterial communities in a denitrifying biofilter in central Illinois. Bacterial communities were assessed using automated ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis for bacteria and terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism of nosZ for denitrifying bacteria. Non-metric multidimensional scaling and analysis of similarity (ANOSIM) analyses indicated that bacteria showed statistically significant spatial structure by depth and transect, while denitrifying bacteria did not exhibit significant spatial structure. For determination of spatial patterns, we developed a package of automated functions for the R statistical environment that allows directional analysis of microbial community composition data using either ANOSIM or Mantel statistics. Applying this package to the biofilter data, the flow path correlation range for the bacterial community was 6.4 m at the shallower, periodically inundated depth and 10.7 m at the deeper, continually submerged depth. These spatial structures suggest a strong influence of hydrology on the microbial community composition in these denitrifying biofilters. Understanding such spatial structure can also guide optimal sample collection strategies for microbial community analyses.	2014	67	10.1007/s00248-013-0286-0	YES	Dave	
Kembel SW; Meadow JF; OConnor TK; Mhuireach G; Northcutt D; Kline J; Moriyama M; Brown GZ; Bohannan BJM; Green JL	Architectural Design Drives the Biogeography of Indoor Bacterial Communities	PLOS ONE	Background: Architectural design has the potential to influence the microbiology of the built environment, with implications for human health and well-being, but the impact of design on the microbial biogeography of buildings remains poorly understood. In this study we combined microbiological data with information on the function, form, and organization of spaces from a classroom and office building to understand how design choices influence the biogeography of the built environment microbiome. Results: Sequencing of the bacterial 16S gene from dust samples revealed that indoor bacterial communities were extremely diverse, containing more than 32,750 OTUs (operational taxonomic units, 97% sequence similarity cutoff), but most communities were dominated by Proteobacteria, Firmicutes, and Deinococci. Architectural design characteristics related to space type, building arrangement, human use and movement, and ventilation source had a large influence on the structure of bacterial communities. Restrooms contained bacterial communities that were highly distinct from all other rooms, and spaces with high human occupant diversity and a high degree of connectedness to other spaces via ventilation or human movement contained a distinct set of bacterial taxa when compared to spaces with low occupant diversity and low connectedness. Within offices, the source of ventilation air had the greatest effect on bacterial community structure. Conclusions: Our study indicates that humans have a guiding impact on the microbial biodiversity in buildings, both indirectly through the effects of architectural design on microbial community structure, and more directly through the effects of human occupancy and use patterns on the microbes found in different spaces and space types. The impact of design decisions in structuring the indoor microbiome offers the possibility to use ecological knowledge to shape our buildings in a way that will select for an indoor microbiome that promotes our health and well-being.	2014	9	10.1371/journal.pone.0087093	YES	Dave	
Bokulich NA; Thorngate JH; Richardson PM; Mills DA	Microbial biogeography of wine grapes is conditioned by cultivar, vintage, and climate	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	Wine grapes present a unique biogeography model, wherein microbial biodiversity patterns across viticultural zones not only answer questions of dispersal and community maintenance, they are also an inherent component of the quality, consumer acceptance, and economic appreciation of a culturally important food product. On their journey from the vineyard to the wine bottle, grapes are transformed to wine through microbial activity, with indisputable consequences for wine quality parameters. Wine grapes harbor a wide range of microbes originating from the surrounding environment, many of which are recognized for their role in grapevine health and wine quality. However, determinants of regional wine characteristics have not been identified, but are frequently assumed to stem from viticultural or geological factors alone. This study used a high-throughput, short-amplicon sequencing approach to demonstrate that regional, site-specific, and grape-variety factors shape the fungal and bacterial consortia inhabiting wine-grape surfaces. Furthermore, these microbial assemblages are correlated to specific climatic features, suggesting a link between vineyard environmental conditions and microbial inhabitation patterns. Taken together, these factors shape the unique microbial inputs to regional wine fermentations, posing the existence of nonrandom microbial terroir as a determining factor in regional variation among wine grapes.	2014	111	10.1073/pnas.1317377110	YES	Dave	
Singh D; Lee-Cruz L; Kim WS; Kerfahi D; Chun JH; Adams JM	Strong elevational trends in soil bacterial community composition on Mt. Ha lla, South Korea	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	Elevational trends in the ecology of macroorganisms have been studied extensively; by contrast very little is known of such trends in microbial diversity. Previous studies on soil bacteria have found either a diversity decline, a peak in mid altitudes, or no trend with increasing elevation. Here we studied bacterial diversity and community composition in relation to elevation on Mt. Halla, Jeju Island, South Korea, a massive shield volcano. Samples were taken along two transects, from 100 m.a.s.l. to the summit at 1950 m.a.s.l., at elevational intervals of 200 m. PCR-amplified soil DNA for the bacterial 16S rRNA gene targeting V1 to V3 region was 454-pyrosequenced, and taxonomically classified against EzTaxon-e database. Elevation was the best predictor of variation in bacterial community composition along the two transects, even when considering other soil parameters. Elevation was itself highly correlated with mean annual temperature (MAT) and mean annual precipitation (MAP), suggesting that soil bacterial community composition On Mt. Haifa is more strongly affected by climate than by geochemical or soil textural factors. The two transects showed certain consistent differences in bacterial phyla composition, with one transect having significantly higher abundance of Planctomycetes and Gemmatimonadetes than the other. Certain other phyla (e.g. Acidobacteria) also showed striking trends in abundance with elevation, but the trends differed between the two transects. Bacterial diversity and richness were also most strongly correlated with elevation, MAT and MAP, although soil pH explained a part of the variation. Moreover, vegetation cover type, irrespective of elevation, had an effect on soil bacterial diversity and richness. We found a dip in diversity at lower mid elevations (700-1300 m) in both transects; a trend which has not been found before. Our results, when compared with other studies, emphasize that no simple rule can be applied to mountain systems in general, but that climate itself is a major influence on community composition. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2014	68	10.1016/j.soilbio.2013.09.027	MAYBE	Dave	
Luke C; Frenzel P; Ho A; Fiantis D; Schad P; Schneider B; Schwark L; Utami SR	Macroecology of methane-oxidizing bacteria: the beta-diversity of pmoA genotypes in tropical and subtropical rice paddies	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Studies addressing microbial biogeography have increased during the past decade, but research on microbial distribution patterns is still in its infancies, and many aspects are only poorly understood. Here, we compared the methanotroph community in paddy soils sampled in Indonesia, Vietnam, China and Italy, focusing on the distance-decay relationship. We used the pmoA gene as marker for methanotroph diversity in terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism, microarray and pyrosequencing approaches. We could observe a significant increase of -diversity with geographical distance across continents (12000km). Measured environmental parameters explained only a small amount of data variation, and we found no evidence for dispersal limitation. Thus, we propose historical contingencies being responsible for the observed patterns. Furthermore, we performed an in-depth analysis of type II methanotroph pmoA distribution at the sequence level. We used ordination analysis to project sequence dissimilarities into a three-dimensional space (multidimensional scaling). The ordination suggests that type II methanotrophs in paddy fields can be divided into five major groups. However, these groups were found to be distributed in all soils independent of the geographic origin. By including tropical field sites (Indonesia and Vietnam) into the analysis, we further observed the first paddy fields harbouring a methanotroph community depleted in type II methanotrophs.	2014	16	10.1111/1462-2920.12190	YES	Dave	
Szekely AJ; Langenheder S	The importance of species sorting differs between habitat generalists and specialists in bacterial communities	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Recent studies have shown that the spatial turnover of bacterial communities, that is, beta-diversity, is determined by a combination of different assembly mechanisms, such as species sorting, that is, environmental filtering, and dispersal-related mechanisms. However, it is currently unclear to what extent the importance of the different mechanisms depends on community traits. Here, we implemented a study using a rock pool metacommunity to test whether habitat specialization of bacterial taxa and groups or their phylogenetic identity influenced by which mechanisms communities were assembled. In general, our results show that species sorting was the most important assembly mechanism. However, we found that a larger fraction of the variation in bacterial community composition between pools could be explained by environmental factors in case of habitat generalists, that is, taxa that were widespread and abundant in the metacommunity, compared with habitat specialists, that is, taxa that had a more restricted distribution range and tended to be rare. Differences in assembly mechanisms were observed between different major phyla and classes. However, also here, a larger fraction of the variation in community composition among pools could be explained for taxonomic groups that contained on average more habitat generalists. In summary, our results show that species sorting is stronger for the most common taxa, indicating that beta-diversity along environmental gradients can be adequately described without considering rare taxa.	2014	87	10.1111/1574-6941.12195	MAYBE	Dave	
Xu HJ; Li S; Su JQ; Nie SA; Gibson V; Li H; Zhu YG	Does urbanization shape bacterial community composition in urban park soils? A case study in 16 representative Chinese cities based on the pyrosequencing method	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Although the geographical distribution patterns of microbes have been studied for years, few studies have focused on urban soils. Urbanization may have detrimental effects on the soil ecosystem through pollution discharge and changes in urban climate. It is unclear whether urbanization-related factors have any effect on soil bacterial communities. Therefore we investigated geographical patterns of soil microbial communities in parks in 16 representative Chinese cities. The microbial communities in these 95 soil samples were revealed by 454-pyrosequencing. There were 574442 effective sequences among the total of 980019 16S rRNA gene sequences generated, showing the diversity of the microbial communities. Proteobacteria, Actinobacteria, Acidobacteria, Planctomycetes, Chloroflexi and Bacteroidetes were found to be the six dominant phyla in all samples. Canonical correspondence analysis showed that pH, followed by annual average precipitation, annual average temperature, annual average relative humidity and city sunshine hours, Mn and Mg were the factors most highly correlated with the bacterial community variance. Urbanization did have an effect on bacterial community composition of urban park soils but it contributed less to the total variance compared with geographical locations and soil properties, which explained 6.19% and 16.78% of the variance, respectively.	2014	87	10.1111/1574-6941.12215	MAYBE	Dave	
Guan XY; Wang JF; Zhao H; Wang JJ; Luo XM; Liu F; Zhao FQ	Soil bacterial communities shaped by geochemical factors and land use in a less-explored area, Tibetan Plateau	BMC GENOMICS	Background: As the largest low-latitude permafrost region, the Tibetan Plateau (TP) is an important part of the earths terrestrial ecosystem and one of the most vulnerable areas to climate change and human activities. However, to the best of our knowledge, the bacterial communities in TP soils and their roles in biogeochemical cycles remain limited. Results: In this study, we report the bacterial community structure and function as well as their correlation with environmental factors in TP major ecosystems (farmland, alpine meadow and oligosaline lake) by using metagenomic approaches. Compared with other soil samples in various environments, TP soils share a core set of microorganisms with a distinct abundance and composition. Among TP soil samples, the taxonomic and functional composition of bacterial communities among the upper (3-5 cm) and lower (18-20 cm) soils of farmland sites were highly similar, whereas the dissimilarities within alpine meadow samples were significantly greater than among farmland samples. A similar pattern was observed in elements cycles and pathways associated with adaption to environment and land use types. Canonical correlation analysis revealed that the bacterial communities in most of farmland and alpine meadow soil samples were also significantly correlated with geogenic variables. Specifically, the root-nodule bacteria are negatively correlated with the soil moisture and pH, while Thiobacillus associated with sulfur cycles show potential responses to low temperature and intense UV radiation. Conclusions: These findings indicate that the bacterial community structure and functions in TP soils were influenced by both human activities and soil environmental properties, and that the bacterial communities appeared to be more homogenized in the farmland soils compared with pristine alpine meadows.	2013	14	10.1186/1471-2164-14-820	MAYBE	Dave	
Sokol ER; Herbold CW; Lee CK; Cary SC; Barrett JE	Local and regional influences over soil microbial metacommunities in the Transantarctic Mountains	ECOSPHERE	The metacommunity concept provides a useful framework to assess the influence of local and regional controls over diversity patterns. Culture-independent studies of soil microbial communities in the McMurdo Dry Valleys of East Antarctica (77 degrees S) have shown that bacterial diversity is related to soil geochemical gradients, while studies targeting edaphic cyanobacteria have linked local diversity patterns to dispersal-based processes. In this study, we increased the spatial extent of observed soil microbial communities to cover the Beardmore Glacier region in the central Transantarctic Mountains (84 degrees S). We used community profiling techniques to characterize diversity patterns for bacteria and the cyanobacterial subcomponent of the microbial community. Diversity partitioning was used to calculate beta diversity and estimate among-site dissimilarity in the metacommunity. We then used variation partitioning to assess the relationship between beta diversity and environmental and spatial gradients. We found that dominant groups in the soil bacterial metacommunity were influenced by gradients in pH and soil moisture at the Transantarctic scale (800 km). Conversely, beta diversity for the cyanobacterial component of the edaphic microbial metacommunity was decoupled from these environmental gradients, and was more related to spatial filters, suggesting that wind-driven dispersal dynamics created cyanobacterial biogeography at a local scale (<3 km).	2013	4	10.1890/ES13-00136.1	YES	Dave	
Pita L; Turon X; Lopez-Legentil S; Erwin PM	Host rules: spatial stability of bacterial communities associated with marine sponges (Ircinia spp.) in the Western Mediterranean Sea	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Dispersal limitation and environmental selection are the main processes shaping free-living microbial communities, but host-related factors may also play a major role in structuring symbiotic communities. Here, we aimed to determine the effects of isolation-by-distance and host species on the spatial structure of sponge-associated bacterial communities using as a model the abundant demosponge genus Ircinia. We targeted three co-occurring Ircinia species and used terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) analysis of 16S rRNA gene sequences to explore the differentiation of their bacterial communities across a scale of hundreds of kilometres in the Western Mediterranean Sea. Multivariate analysis and nonmetric multidimensional scaling plots of T-RFLP profiles showed that bacterial communities in Ircinia sponges were structured by host species and remained stable across sampling locations, despite geographic distances (80-800km) and diverse local conditions. While significant differences among some locations were observed in Ircinia variabilis-derived communities, no correlation between geographic distance and community similarity was consistently detected for symbiotic bacteria in any host sponge species. Our results indicate that bacterial communities are mostly shaped by host species-specific factors and suggest that evolutionary processes acting on long-term symbiotic relationships have favored spatial stability of sponge-associated bacterial communities.	2013	86	10.1111/1574-6941.12159	YES	Dave	
Zhu DC; Tanabe SH; Yang C; Zhang WM; Sun JZ	Bacterial Community Composition of South China Sea Sediments through Pyrosequencing-Based Analysis of 16S rRNA Genes	PLOS ONE	Background: Subseafloor sediments accumulate large amounts of organic and inorganic materials that contain a highly diverse microbial ecosystem. The aim of this study was to survey the bacterial community of subseafloor sediments from the South China Sea. Methodology/Principal Findings: Pyrosequencing of over 265,000 amplicons of the V3 hypervariable region of the 16S ribosomal RNA gene was performed on 16 sediment samples collected from multiple locations in the northern region of the South China Sea from depths ranging from 35 to 4000 m. A total of 9,726 operational taxonomic units (OTUs; between 695 and 2819 unique OTUs per sample) at 97% sequence similarity level were generated. In total, 40 bacterial phyla including 22 formally described phyla and 18 candidate phyla, with Proteobacteria, Firmicutes, Planctomycetes, Actinobacteria and Chloroflexi being most diverse, were identified. The most abundant phylotype, accounting for 42.6% of all sequences, belonged to Gammaproteobacteria, which possessed absolute predominance in the samples analyzed. Among the 18 candidate phyla, 12 were found for the first time in the South China Sea. Conclusions: This study provided a novel insight into the composition of bacterial communities of the South China Sea subseafloor. Furthermore, abundances and community similarity analysis showed that the compositions of the bacterial communities are very similar at phylum level at different depths from 35-4000 m.	2013	8	10.1371/journal.pone.0078501	MAYBE	Dave	
Geyer KM; Altrichter AE; Van Horn DJ; Takacs-Vesbach CD; Gooseff MN; Barrett JE	Environmental controls over bacterial communities in polar desert soils	ECOSPHERE	Productivity-diversity theory has proven informative to many investigations seeking to understand drivers of spatial patterns in biotic communities and relationships between resource availability and community structure documented for a wide variety of taxa. For soil bacteria, availability of organic matter is one such resource known to influence diversity and community structure. Here we describe the influence of environmental gradients on soil bacterial communities of the McMurdo Dry Valleys, Antarctica, a model ecosystem that hosts simple, microbially-dominated foodwebs believed to be primarily structured by abiotic drivers such as water, organic matter, pH, and electrical conductivity. We sampled 48 locations exhibiting orders of magnitude ranges in primary production and soil geochemistry (pH and electrical conductivity) over local and regional scales. Our findings show that environmental gradients imposed by cryptogam productivity and regional variation in geochemistry influence the diversity and structure of soil bacterial communities. Responses of soil bacterial richness to carbon content illustrate a productivity-diversity relationship, while bacterial community structure primarily responds to soil pH and electrical conductivity. This diversity response to resource availability and a community structure response to environmental severity suggests a need for careful consideration of how microbial communities and associated functions may respond to shifting environmental conditions resulting from human activity and climate variability.	2013	4	10.1890/ES13-00048.1	MAYBE	Dave	
Luna GM; Corinaldesi C; Rastelli E; Danovaro R	Patterns and drivers of bacterial alpha- and beta-diversity across vertical profiles from surface to subsurface sediments	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY REPORTS	We investigated the patterns and drivers of bacterial - and -diversity, along with viral and prokaryotic abundance and the carbon production rates, in marine surface and subsurface sediments (down to 1m depth) in two habitats: vegetated sediments (seagrass meadow) and non-vegetated sediments. Prokaryotic abundance and production decreased with depth in the sediment, but cell-specific production rates and the virus-to-prokaryote ratio increased, highlighting unexpectedly high activity in the subsurface. The highest diversity was observed in vegetated sediments. Bacterial -diversity between sediment horizons was high, and only a minor number of taxa was shared between surface and subsurface layers. Viruses significantly contributed to explain - and -diversity patterns. Despite potential limitations due to the only use of fingerprinting techniques, this study indicates that the coastal subsurface host highly active and diversified bacterial assemblages, that subsurface cells are more active than expected and that viruses promote -diversity and stimulate bacterial metabolism in subsurface layers. The limited number of taxa shared between habitats, and between surface and subsurface sediment horizons, suggests that future investigations of the shallow subsurface will provide insights into the census of bacterial diversity, and the comprehension of the patterns and drivers of prokaryotic diversity in marine ecosystems.	2013	5	10.1111/1758-2229.12075	MAYBE	Dave	
Yamamura T; Schwendenmann L; Lear G	Tree species identity has little impact on the structure of soil bacterial communities in a 10-year-old tropical tree plantation	BIOLOGY AND FERTILITY OF SOILS	We investigated whether tree species identity has a significant impact on the structure of soil bacterial communities in a tropical tree plantation (Sardinilla, Panama). The experimental site contains tree species native to Panama, planted in both monoculture and mixed-species plots. Using a DNA fingerprinting approach (automated ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis [ARISA]), we identified significant differences in the community structure of abundant bacterial taxa in the bulk soil among all monoculture plots. We similarly found differences among plots containing five, three, one or no tree species. While distance-based gradients in bacterial community structure were detected across the plantation, further investigation revealed that the observed heterogeneity was, in fact, poorly related to the tree species in a given plot. We provide evidence that site related features (e.g., variability in soil pH) play a more important role in regulating the structure of bacterial communities within the bulk soil than tree species identity or richness.	2013	49	10.1007/s00374-013-0774-x	MAYBE	Dave	
Krause S; Meima-Franke M; Hefting MM; Bodelier PLE	Spatial patterns of methanotrophic communities along a hydrological gradient in a riparian wetland	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Microbial communities display a variety of biogeographical patterns mainly driven by large-scale environmental gradients. Here, we analysed the spatial distribution of methane-oxidizing bacteria (MOB) and methane oxidation in a strongly fluctuating environment. We investigated whether the spatial variability of the MOB community can be explained by an environmental gradient and whether this changes with different plot sizes. We applied a pmoA-specific microarray to detect MOB, measured methane oxidation, methane emissions and soil properties. All variables were measured in a 10x10m, 1x1m and 20x20cm plot and interpreted using a geostatistical approach. Methane oxidation as well as MOB displayed spatial patterns reflected in the underlying flooding gradient. Overlapping and contrasting spatial patterns for type I and type II MOB suggested different ecological life strategies. With smaller plot size, the environmental gradient could not explain the variability in the data and local factors became more important. In conclusion, environmental gradients can generally explain variability in microbial spatial patterns; however, we think that this does not contribute to a mechanistic explanation for microbial diversity because the relevant scales for microorganisms are much smaller than those normally measured.	2013	86	10.1111/1574-6941.12091	MAYBE	Dave	
Steven B; Gallegos-Graves L; Belnap J; Kuske CR	Dryland soil microbial communities display spatial biogeographic patterns associated with soil depth and soil parent material	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Biological soil crusts (biocrusts) are common to drylands worldwide. We employed replicated, spatially nested sampling and 16S rRNA gene sequencing to describe the soil microbial communities in three soils derived from different parent material (sandstone, shale, and gypsum). For each soil type, two depths (biocrusts, 0-1cm; below-crust soils, 2-5cm) and two horizontal spatial scales (15cm and 5m) were sampled. In all three soils, Cyanobacteria and Proteobacteria demonstrated significantly higher relative abundance in the biocrusts, while Chloroflexi and Archaea were significantly enriched in the below-crust soils. Biomass and diversity of the communities in biocrusts or below-crust soils did not differ with soil type. However, biocrusts on gypsum soil harbored significantly larger populations of Actinobacteria and Proteobacteria and lower populations of Cyanobacteria. Numerically dominant operational taxonomic units (OTU; 97% sequence identity) in the biocrusts were conserved across the soil types, whereas two dominant OTUs in the below-crust sand and shale soils were not identified in the gypsum soil. The uniformity with which small-scale vertical community differences are maintained across larger horizontal spatial scales and soil types is a feature of dryland ecosystems that should be considered when designing management plans and determining the response of biocrusts to environmental disturbances.	2013	86	10.1111/1574-6941.12143	YES	Dave	
Angel R; Pasternak Z; Soares MIM; Conrad R; Gillor O	Active and total prokaryotic communities in dryland soils	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	The relationship between total and metabolically active soil microbial communities can change drastically with environment. In dry lands, water availability is a key factor limiting cells activity. We surveyed the diversity of total and active Archaea and Bacteria in soils ranging from arid desert to Mediterranean forests. Thirty composited soil samples were retrieved from five sites along a precipitation gradient, collected from patches located between and under the dominant perennial plant at each site. Molecular fingerprinting was used to site-sort the communities according of their 16S rRNA genes (total community) and their rRNA (active community) amplified by PCR or RT-PCR from directly extracted soil nucleic acids. The differences between soil samples were much higher in total rather than active microbial communities: differences in DNA fingerprints between sites were 1.2 and 2.5 times higher than RNA differences (for Archaea and Bacteria, respectively). Patch-type discrepancies between DNA fingerprints were on average 2.7-19.7 times greater than RNA differences. Moreover, RNA-based community patterns were highly correlated with soil moisture but did not necessarily follow spatial distribution pattern. Our results suggest that in water-limited environments, the spatial patterns obtained by the analysis of active communities are not as robust as those drawn from total communities.	2013	86	10.1111/1574-6941.12155	YES	Dave	
Jacob M; Soltwedel T; Boetius A; Ramette A	Biogeography of Deep-Sea Benthic Bacteria at Regional Scale (LTER HAUSGARTEN, Fram Strait, Arctic)	PLOS ONE	Knowledge on spatial scales of the distribution of deep-sea life is still sparse, but highly relevant to the understanding of dispersal, habitat ranges and ecological processes. We examined regional spatial distribution patterns of the benthic bacterial community and covarying environmental parameters such as water depth, biomass and energy availability at the Arctic Long-Term Ecological Research (LTER) site HAUSGARTEN (Eastern Fram Strait). Samples from 13 stations were retrieved from a bathymetric (1,284-3,535 m water depth, 54 km in length) and a latitudinal transect (, 2,500 m water depth; 123 km in length). 454 massively parallel tag sequencing (MPTS) and automated ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis (ARISA) were combined to describe both abundant and rare types shaping the bacterial community. This spatial sampling scheme allowed detection of up to 99% of the estimated richness on phylum and class levels. At the resolution of operational taxonomic units (97% sequence identity; OTU3%) only 36% of the Chao1 estimated richness was recovered, indicating a high diversity, mostly due to rare types (62% of all OTU3%). Accordingly, a high turnover of the bacterial community was also observed between any two sampling stations (average replacement of 79% of OTU3%), yet no direct correlation with spatial distance was observed within the region. Bacterial community composition and structure differed significantly with increasing water depth along the bathymetric transect. The relative sequence abundance of Verrucomicrobia and Planctomycetes decreased significantly with water depth, and that of Deferribacteres increased. Energy availability, estimated from phytodetrital pigment concentrations in the sediments, partly explained the variation in community structure. Overall, this study indicates a high proportion of unique bacterial types on relatively small spatial scales (tens of kilometers), and supports the sampling design of the LTER site HAUSGARTEN to study bacterial community shifts in this rapidly changing area of the worlds oceans.	2013	8	10.1371/journal.pone.0072779	YES	Dave	
Wilkins D; van Sebille E; Rintoul SR; Lauro FM; Cavicchioli R	Advection shapes Southern Ocean microbial assemblages independent of distance and environment effects	NATURE COMMUNICATIONS	Although environmental selection and spatial separation have been shown to shape the distribution and abundance of marine microorganisms, the effects of advection (physical transport) have not been directly tested. Here we examine 25 samples covering all major water masses of the Southern Ocean to determine the effects of advection on microbial biogeography. Even when environmental factors and spatial separation are controlled for, there is a positive correlation between advection distance and taxonomic dissimilarity, indicating that an advection effect has a role in shaping marine microbial community composition. This effect is likely due to the advection of cells increasing the probability that upstream microorganisms will colonize downstream sites. Our study shows that in addition to distance and environmental selection, advection shapes the composition of marine microbial communities.	2013	4	10.1038/ncomms3457	YES	Dave	
Hatosy SM; Martiny JBH; Sachdeva R; Steele J; Fuhrman JA; Martiny AC	Beta diversity of marine bacteria depends on temporal scale	ECOLOGY	Factors controlling the spatial distribution of bacterial diversity have been intensely studied, whereas less is known about temporal changes. To address this, we tested whether the mechanisms that underlie bacterial temporal -diversity vary across different scales in three marine microbial communities. While seasonal turnover was detected, at least 73% of the community variation occurred at intra-seasonal temporal scales, suggesting that episodic events are important in structuring marine microbial communities. In addition, turnover at different temporal scales appeared to be driven by different factors. Intra-seasonal turnover was significantly correlated to environmental variables such as phosphate and silicate concentrations, while seasonal and interannual turnover were related to nitrate concentration and temporal distance. We observed a strong link between the magnitude of environmental variation and bacterial -diversity in different communities. Analogous to spatial biogeography, we found different rates of community changes across temporal scales.	2013	94	10.1890/12-2125.1	MAYBE	Dave	
Yao HY; Campbell CD; Chapman SJ; Freitag TE; Nicol GW; Singh BK	Multi-factorial drivers of ammonia oxidizer communities: evidence from a national soil survey	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	The factors driving the abundance and community composition of soil microbial communities provide fundamental knowledge on the maintenance of biodiversity and the ecosystem services they underpin. Several studies have suggested that microbial communities are spatially organized, including functional groups and much of the observed variation is explained by geographical location or soil pH. Soil ammonia-oxidizing archaea (AOA) and bacteria (AOB) are excellent models for such study due to their functional, agronomic and environmental importance and their relative ease of characterization. To identify the dominant drivers of different ammonia oxidizers, we used samples (n=713) from the National Soil Inventory of Scotland (NSIS). Our results indicate that 40-45% of the variance in community compositions can be explained by 71 environmental variables. Soil pH and substrate, which have been regarded as the two main drivers, only explained 13-16% of the total variance. We provide strong evidence of multi-factorial drivers (land use, soil type, climate and N deposition) of ammonia-oxidizing communities, all of which play a significant role in the creation of specific niches that are occupied by unique phylotypes. For example, one AOA phylotype was strongly linked to woodland/semi-natural grassland, rainfall and N deposition. Some soil typologies, namely regosols, have a novel AOA community composition indicating typology as one of the factors which defines this ecological niche. AOA abundance was high and strongly linked the rate of potential nitrification in the highly acidic soils supporting the argument that AOA are main ammonia oxidizers in acidic soils. However, for AOB, soil pH and substrate (ammonia) were the main drivers for abundance and community composition. These results highlight the importance of multiple drivers of microbial niche formation and their impact on microbial biogeography that have significant consequences for ecosystem functioning.	2013	15	10.1111/1462-2920.12141	MAYBE	Dave	
Ladau J; Sharpton TJ; Finucane MM; Jospin G; Kembel SW; ODwyer J; Koeppel AF; Green JL; Pollard KS	Global marine bacterial diversity peaks at high latitudes in winter	ISME JOURNAL	Genomic approaches to characterizing bacterial communities are revealing significant differences in diversity and composition between environments. But bacterial distributions have not been mapped at a global scale. Although current community surveys are way too sparse to map global diversity patterns directly, there is now sufficient data to fit accurate models of how bacterial distributions vary across different environments and to make global scale maps from these models. We apply this approach to map the global distributions of bacteria in marine surface waters. Our spatially and temporally explicit predictions suggest that bacterial diversity peaks in temperate latitudes across the worlds oceans. These global peaks are seasonal, occurring 6 months apart in the two hemispheres, in the boreal and austral winters. This pattern is quite different from the tropical, seasonally consistent diversity patterns observed for most macroorganisms. However, like other marine organisms, surface water bacteria are particularly diverse in regions of high human environmental impacts on the oceans. Our maps provide the first picture of bacterial distributions at a global scale and suggest important differences between the diversity patterns of bacteria compared with other organisms.	2013	7	10.1038/ismej.2013.37	MAYBE	Dave	
Hu HW; Zhang LM; Dai Y; Di HJ; He JZ	pH-dependent distribution of soil ammonia oxidizers across a large geographical scale as revealed by high-throughput pyrosequencing	JOURNAL OF SOILS AND SEDIMENTS	Ammonia-oxidizing archaea (AOA) and bacteria (AOB) are ubiquitous and important for nitrogen transformations in terrestrial ecosystems. However, the distribution patterns of these microorganisms as affected by the terrestrial environments across a large geographical scale are not well understood. This study was designed to gain insights into the ecological characteristics of AOA and AOB in 65 soils, collected from a wide range of soil and ecosystem types. Barcoded pyrosequencing in combination with quantitative PCR was employed to characterize the relative abundance, diversity, and community composition of archaeal 16S rRNA gene, and AOA and AOB amoA genes in 65 soil samples. The operational taxonomic unit richness and Shannon diversity of Thaumarchaeota, AOA, and AOB were highly variable among different soils, but their variations were best explained by soil pH. Soil pH was strongly correlated with the overall community composition of ammonia oxidizers, as measured by the pairwise Bray-Curtis dissimilarity across all sites. These findings were further corroborated by the evident pH-dependent distribution patterns of four thaumarchaeal groups (I.1a-associated, I.1b, I.1c, and I.1c-associated) and four AOB clusters (2, 3a.1, 10, and 12). The ratios of AOA to AOB amoA gene copy numbers significantly decreased with increasing pH, suggesting a competitive advantage of AOA over AOB in acidic soils. These results suggest that the distribution of ammonia oxidizers across large-scale biogeographical settings can be largely predicted along the soil pH gradient, thus providing important indications for the ecological characteristics of AOA and AOB in different soils.	2013	13	10.1007/s11368-013-0726-y	MAYBE	Dave	
Hu HW; Zhang LM; Yuan CL; He JZ	Contrasting Euryarchaeota communities between upland and paddy soils exhibited similar pH-impacted biogeographic patterns	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	Euryarchaeota, as an important and ubiquitous Archaea phylum, contributes substantially to global energy cycling. However, there is a considerable lack of knowledge regarding their biogeographic patterns in terrestrial ecosystems. Here barcoded pyrosequencing was employed to compare the relative abundance, diversity and community composition of Euryarchaeota in 92 soil samples, collected from a variety of ecosystem types. A total of 96,534 euryarchaeal sequences were classified from pyrosequencing of the archaeal 16S rRNA gene, comprising 22.5% of the total archaeal sequences detected. Paddy soils harbored contrasting Euryarchaeota communities from upland soils (including cropland, grassland, forest, and tea orchard soil), at all taxonomic resolutions from phylum to genus level. Within upland soils, the relative abundance of Euryarchaeota in Archaea, and Euryarchaeota operational taxonomic unit (OTU) richness are significantly influenced by soil pH and H2O%. Similar observations held true for the beta diversity patterns, with soil pH and H2O% best explaining the variance of the pairwise Bray-Curtis dissimilarity. By comparison, within paddy soils, the Euryarchaeota abundance in Archaea, and the alpha and beta diversity patterns, could be best predicted along the gradients of soil pH and NH4+-N. These findings were further corroborated by the evident pH-, H2O%- or NH4+-N-associated distributions of several major Euryarchaeota orders. Taken together, our results emphasized the significant importance of soil pH as the prevailing environmental factor in shaping the terrestrial Euryarchaeota. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2013	64	10.1016/j.soilbio.2013.04.003	MAYBE	Dave	
Lanzen A; Simachew A; Gessesse A; Chmolowska D; Jonassen I; Ovreas L	Surprising Prokaryotic and Eukaryotic Diversity, Community Structure and Biogeography of Ethiopian Soda Lakes	PLOS ONE	Soda lakes are intriguing ecosystems harboring extremely productive microbial communities in spite of their extreme environmental conditions. This makes them valuable model systems for studying the connection between community structure and abiotic parameters such as pH and salinity. For the first time, we apply high-throughput sequencing to accurately estimate phylogenetic richness and composition in five soda lakes, located in the Ethiopian Rift Valley. The lakes were selected for their contrasting pH, salinities and stratification and several depths or spatial positions were covered in each lake. DNA was extracted and analyzed from all lakes at various depths and RNA extracted from two of the lakes, analyzed using both amplicon- and shotgun sequencing. We reveal a surprisingly high biodiversity in all of the studied lakes, similar to that of freshwater lakes. Interestingly, diversity appeared uncorrelated or positively correlated to pH and salinity, with the most extreme lakes showing the highest richness. Together, pH, dissolved oxygen, sodium- and potassium concentration explained approximately 30% of the compositional variation between samples. A diversity of prokaryotic and eukaryotic taxa could be identified, including several putatively involved in carbon-, sulfur- or nitrogen cycling. Key processes like methane oxidation, ammonia oxidation and nitrifier denitrification were also confirmed by mRNA transcript analyses.	2013	8	10.1371/journal.pone.0072577	MAYBE	Dave	
Winter C; Matthews B; Suttle CA	Effects of environmental variation and spatial distance on Bacteria, Archaea and viruses in sub-polar and arctic waters	ISME JOURNAL	We investigated the influence of environmental parameters and spatial distance on bacterial, archaeal and viral community composition from 13 sites along a 3200-km long voyage from Halifax to Kugluktuk (Canada) through the Labrador Sea, Baffin Bay and the Arctic Archipelago. Variation partitioning was used to disentangle the effects of environmental parameters, spatial distance and spatially correlated environmental parameters on prokaryotic and viral communities. Viral and prokaryotic community composition were related in the Labrador Sea, but were independent of each other in Baffin Bay and the Arctic Archipelago. In oceans, the dominant dispersal mechanism for prokaryotes and viruses is the movement of water masses, thus, dispersal for both groups is passive and similar. Nevertheless, spatial distance explained 7-19% of the variation in viral community composition in the Arctic Archipelago, but was not a significant predictor of bacterial or archaeal community composition in either sampling area, suggesting a decoupling of the processes regulating community composition within these taxonomic groups. According to the meta-community theory, patterns in bacterial and archaeal community composition suggest a role for species sorting, while patterns of virus community composition are consistent with species sorting in the Labrador Sea and suggest a potential role of mass effects in the Arctic Archipelago. Given that, a specific prokaryotic taxon may be infected by multiple viruses with high reproductive potential, our results suggest that viral community composition was subject to a high turnover relative to prokaryotic community composition in the Arctic Archipelago.	2013	7	10.1038/ismej.2013.56	YES	Dave	
Pita L; Lopez-Legentil S; Erwin PM	Biogeography and Host Fidelity of Bacterial Communities in Ircinia spp. from the Bahamas	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Research on sponge microbial assemblages has revealed different trends in the geographic variability and specificity of bacterial symbionts. Here, we combined replicated terminal-restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) and clone library analyses of 16S rRNA gene sequences to investigate the biogeographic and host-specific structure of bacterial communities in two congeneric and sympatric sponges: Ircinia strobilina, two color morphs of Ircinia felix and ambient seawater. Samples were collected from five islands of the Bahamas separated by 80 to 400 km. T-RFLP profiles revealed significant differences in bacterial community structure among sponge hosts and ambient bacterioplankton. Pairwise statistical comparisons of clone libraries confirmed the specificity of the bacterial assemblages to each host species and differentiated symbiont communities between color morphs of I. felix. Overall, differences in bacterial communities within each host species and morph were unrelated to location. Our results show a high degree of symbiont fidelity to host sponge across a spatial scale of up to 400 km, suggesting that host-specific rather than biogeographic factors play a primary role in structuring and maintaining sponge-bacteria relationships in Ircinia species from the Bahamas.	2013	66	10.1007/s00248-013-0215-2	MAYBE	Dave	
Pasternak Z; Al-Ashhab A; Gatica J; Gafny R; Avraham S; Minz D; Gillor O; Jurkevitch E	Spatial and Temporal Biogeography of Soil Microbial Communities in Arid and Semiarid Regions	PLOS ONE	Microbial communities in soils may change in accordance with distance, season, climate, soil texture and other environmental parameters. Microbial diversity patterns have been extensively surveyed in temperate regions, but few such studies attempted to address them with respect to spatial and temporal scales and their correlations to environmental factors, especially in arid ecosystems. In order to fill this gap on a regional scale, the molecular fingerprints and abundance of three taxonomic groups - Bacteria, alpha-Proteobacteria and Actinobacteria - were sampled from soils 0.5-100 km apart in arid, semi-arid, dry Mediterranean and shoreline Mediterranean regions in Israel. Additionally, on a local scale, the molecular fingerprints of three taxonomic groups - Bacteria, Archaea and Fungi - were sampled from soils 1 cm-500 m apart in the semi-arid region, in both summer and winter. Fingerprints of the Bacteria differentiated between all regions (P<0.02), while those of the a-Proteobacteria differentiated between some of the regions (0.01<P<0.09), and actinobacterial fingerprints were similar among all regions (P>0.05). Locally, fingerprints of archaea and fungi did not display distance-decay relationships (P>0.13), that is, the dissimilarity between communities did not increase with geographic distance. Neither was this phenomenon evident in bacterial samples in summer (P>0.24); in winter, however, differences between bacterial communities significantly increased as the geographic distances between them grew (P<0.01). Microbial community structures, as well as microbial abundance, were both significantly correlated to precipitation and soil characteristics: texture, organic matter and water content (R-2>0.60, P<0.01). We conclude that on the whole, microbial biogeography in arid and semi-arid soils in Israel is determined more by specific environmental factors than geographic distances and spatial distribution patterns.	2013	8	10.1371/journal.pone.0069705	YES	Dave	
Lanconi MD; Taketani RG; Kavamura VN; de Melo IS	Microbial community biogeographic patterns in the rhizosphere of two Brazilian semi-arid leguminous trees	WORLD JOURNAL OF MICROBIOLOGY & BIOTECHNOLOGY	Arid environments are regular and well distributed over all continents and display drought characteristics whether full-time or seasonal. This study aims to characterize how the microbial communities of the rhizosphere of two leguminous trees from the Brazilian semi-arid biome the Caatinga are geographically and seasonally shaped, as well as the factors driving this variation. With that purpose, the soil rhizosphere from two leguminous trees (Mimosa tenuiflora and Piptadenia stipulacea (Benth.) Ducke) were sampled in two different seasons: rainy and drought at five different sites. Assessment of bacterial and archaeal communities occurred by T-RFLP analysis of 16S rRNA and archaeal amoA genes. By these means, it was observed that the seasons (wet and dry periods) are the factors that most influence the composition of the microbial community from both analyzed plants, except for the results obtained from the CCA applied to Archaeas. Furthermore, soil physical-chemical factors also had a significant influence on the community and indicated a geographical pattern of the bacterial community. It was not possible to observe significant modifications in the composition in relation to the plant species. We have seen that soil characteristics and rainfall were the factors that most influenced the microbial composition. Also, the bacterial community had a significant correlation with soil characteristics that indicates that these rhizosphere communities might be selected by environmental characteristics. Furthermore, the data suggest that climate plays a key role in structuring the microbial community of this biome.	2013	29	10.1007/s11274-013-1286-4	MAYBE	Dave	
Adams RI; Miletto M; Taylor JW; Bruns TD	Dispersal in microbes: fungi in indoor air are dominated by outdoor air and show dispersal limitation at short distances	ISME JOURNAL	The indoor microbiome is a complex system that is thought to depend on dispersal from the outdoor biome and the occupants microbiome combined with selective pressures imposed by the occupants behaviors and the building itself. We set out to determine the pattern of fungal diversity and composition in indoor air on a local scale and to identify processes behind that pattern. We surveyed airborne fungal assemblages within 1-month time periods at two seasons, with high replication, indoors and outdoors, within and across standardized residences at a university housing facility. Fungal assemblages indoors were diverse and strongly determined by dispersal from outdoors, and no fungal taxa were found as indicators of indoor air. There was a seasonal effect on the fungi found in both indoor and outdoor air, and quantitatively more fungal biomass was detected outdoors than indoors. A strong signal of isolation by distance existed in both outdoor and indoor airborne fungal assemblages, despite the small geographic scale in which this study was undertaken (<500 m). Moreover, room and occupant behavior had no detectable effect on the fungi found in indoor air. These results show that at the local level, outdoor air fungi dominate the patterning of indoor air. More broadly, they provide additional support for the growing evidence that dispersal limitation, even on small geographic scales, is a key process in structuring the often-observed distance-decay biogeographic pattern in microbial communities.	2013	7	10.1038/ismej.2013.28	YES	Dave	
Wu B; Tian JQ; Bai CM; Xiang MC; Sun JZ; Liu XZ	The biogeography of fungal communities in wetland sediments along the Changjiang River and other sites in China	ISME JOURNAL	Whether fungal community structure depends more on historical factors or on contemporary factors is controversial. This study used culture-dependent and -independent (polymerase chain reaction-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (PCR-DGGE)) methods to assess the influence of historical and contemporary factors on the distributions of fungi in the wetland sediments at 10 locations along the Changjiang River and at 10 other locations in China. The culture-dependent approach detected greater species diversity (177 operational taxonomic units (OTUs)) than PCR-DGGE analysis (145 OTUs), and the species in the genera of Penicillium (relative frequency 16.8%), Fusarium (15.4%), Aspergillus (7.6%), Trichoderma (5.8%) and Talaromyces (4.2%) were dominant. On the basis of DGGE data, fungal diversity along the Changjiang River increased from upstream to downstream; altitude explained 44.8% of this variation in diversity. And based on the data from all 20 locations, the fungal communities were geographically clustered into three groups: Southern China, Northern China and the Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau. Multivariate regression tree analysis for data from the 20 locations indicated that the fungal community was influenced primarily by location (which explained 61.8% of the variation at a large scale), followed by total potassium (9.4%) and total nitrogen (3.5%) at a local scale. These results are consistent with the concept that geographic distance is the dominant factor driving variation in fungal diversity at a regional scale (1000-4000 km), whereas environmental factors (total potassium and total nitrogen) explain variation in fungal diversity at a local scale (<1000 km).	2013	7	10.1038/ismej.2013.29	MAYBE	Dave	
Wang JJ; Shen J; Wu YC; Tu C; Soininen J; Stegen JC; He JZ; Liu XQ; Zhang L; Zhang EL	Phylogenetic beta diversity in bacterial assemblages across ecosystems: deterministic versus stochastic processes	ISME JOURNAL	Increasing evidence has emerged for non-random spatial distributions of microbes, but knowledge of the processes that cause variation in microbial assemblage among ecosystems is lacking. For instance, some studies showed that deterministic processes such as habitat specialization are important, while other studies hold that bacterial communities are assembled by stochastic forces. Here we examine the relative influence of deterministic and stochastic processes for bacterial communities from subsurface environments, stream biofilm, lake water, lake sediment and soil using pyrosequencing of the 16S ribosomal RNA gene. We show that there is a general pattern in phylogenetic signal in species ecological niches across recent evolutionary time for all studied habitats, enabling us to infer the influences of community assembly processes from patterns of phylogenetic turnover in community composition. The phylogenetic dissimilarities among-habitat types were significantly higher than within them, and the communities were clustered according to their original habitat types. For communities within-habitat types, the highest phylogenetic turnover rate through space was observed in subsurface environments, followed by stream biofilm on mountainsides, whereas the sediment assemblages across regional scales showed the lowest turnover rate. Quantifying phylogenetic turnover as the deviation from a null expectation suggested that measured environmental variables imposed strong selection on bacterial communities for nearly all sample groups. For three sample groups, spatial distance reflected unmeasured environmental variables that impose selection, as opposed to spatial isolation. Such characterization of spatial and environmental variables proved essential for proper interpretation of partial Mantel results based on observed beta diversity metrics. In summary, our results clearly indicate a dominant role of deterministic processes on bacterial assemblages and highlight that bacteria show strong habitat associations that have likely emerged through evolutionary adaptation.	2013	7	10.1038/ismej.2013.30	MAYBE	Dave	
Lepere C; Domaizon I; Taib N; Mangot JF; Bronner G; Boucher D; Debroas D	Geographic distance and ecosystem size determine the distribution of smallest protists in lacustrine ecosystems	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Understanding the spatial distribution of aquatic microbial diversity and the underlying mechanisms causing differences in community composition is a challenging and central goal for ecologists. Recent insights into protistan diversity and ecology are increasing the debate over their spatial distribution. In this study, we investigate the importance of spatial and environmental factors in shaping the small protists community structure in lakes. We analyzed small protists community composition (beta-diversity) and richness (alpha-diversity) at regional scale by different molecular methods targeting the gene coding for 18S rRNA gene (T-RFLP and 454 pyrosequencing). Our results show a distance-decay pattern for rare and dominant taxa and the spatial distribution of the latter followed the prediction of the island biogeography theory. Furthermore, geographic distances between lakes seem to be the main force shaping the protists community composition in the lakes studied here. Finally, the spatial distribution of protists was discussed at the global scale (11 worldwide distributed lakes) by comparing these results with those present in the public database. UniFrac analysis showed 18S rRNA gene OTUs compositions significantly different among most of lakes, and this difference does not seem to be related to the trophic status.	2013	85	10.1111/1574-6941.12100	YES	Dave	
Peng XF; Jayakumar A; Ward BB	Community composition of ammonia-oxidizing archaea from surface and anoxic depths of oceanic oxygen minimum zones	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Ammonia oxidizing archaea (AOA) have been reported at high abundance in much of the global ocean, even in environments, such as pelagic oxygen minimum zones (OMZs), where conditions seem unlikely to support aerobic ammonium oxidation. Due to the lack of information on any potential alternative metabolism of AOA, the AOA community composition might be expected to differ between oxic and anoxic environments. This hypothesis was tested by evaluating AOA community composition using a functional gene microarray that targets the ammonia monooxygenase gene subunit A (amoA). The relationship between environmental parameters and the biogeography of the Arabian Sea and the Eastern Tropical South Pacific (ETSP) AOA assemblages was investigated using principal component analysis (PCA) and redundancy analysis (RDA). In both the Arabian Sea and the ETSP AOA communities within the core of the OMZ were not significantly different from those inhabiting the oxygenated surface waters above the OMZ. The AOA communities in the Arabian Sea were significantly different from those in the ETSP. In both oceans, the abundance of archaeal amoA gene in the core of the OMZ was higher than that in the surface waters. Our results indicate that AOA communities are distinguished by their geographic origin. RDA suggested that temperature (higher in the Arabian Sea than in the ETSP) was the main factor that correlated with the differences between the AOA communities. Physicochemical properties that characterized the different environments of the OMZ and surface waters played a less important role, than did geography, in shaping the AOA community composition.	2013	4	10.3389/fmicb.2013.00177	MAYBE	Dave	
Garcia-Pichel F; Loza V; Marusenko Y; Mateo P; Potrafka RM	Temperature Drives the Continental-Scale Distribution of Key Microbes in Topsoil Communities	SCIENCE	Global warming will likely force terrestrial plant and animal species to migrate toward cooler areas or sustain range losses; whether this is also true for microorganisms remains unknown. Through continental-scale compositional surveys of soil crust microbial communities across arid North America, we observed a latitudinal replacement in dominance between two key topsoil cyanobacteria that was driven largely by temperature. The responses to temperature of enrichment cultures and cultivated strains support this contention, with one cyanobacterium (Microcoleus vaginatus) being more psychrotolerant and less thermotolerant than the other (M. steenstrupii). In view of our data and regional climate predictions, the latter cyanobacterium may replace the former in much of the studied area within the next few decades, with unknown ecological consequences for soil fertility and erodibility.	2013	340	10.1126/science.1236404	MAYBE	Dave	
Polme S; Bahram M; Yamanaka T; Nara K; Dai YC; Grebenc T; Kraigher H; Toivonen M; Wang PH; Matsuda Y; Naadel T; Kennedy PG; Koljalg U; Tedersoo L	Biogeography of ectomycorrhizal fungi associated with alders (Alnus spp.) in relation to biotic and abiotic variables at the global scale	NEW PHYTOLOGIST	Much of the macroecological information about microorganisms is confounded by the lack of standardized methodology, paucity of metadata and sampling effect of a particular substrate or interacting host taxa. This study aims to disentangle the relative effects of biological, geographical and edaphic variables on the distribution of Alnus-associated ectomycorrhizal (ECM) fungi at the global scale by using comparable sampling and analysis methods. Ribosomal DNA sequence analysis revealed 146 taxa of ECM fungi from 22 Alnus species across 96 sites worldwide. Use of spatial and phylogenetic eigenvectors along with environmental variables in model selection indicated that phylogenetic relations among host plants and geographical links explained 43 and 10%, respectively, in ECM fungal community composition, whereas soil calcium concentration positively influenced taxonomic richness. Intrageneric phylogenetic relations among host plants and regional processes largely account for the global biogeographic distribution of Alnus-associated ECM fungi. The biogeography of ECM fungi is consistent with ancient host migration patterns from Eurasia to North America and from southern Europe to northern Europe after the last glacial maximum, indicating codispersal of hosts and their mycobionts.	2013	198	10.1111/nph.12170	YES	Dave	
Zheng YM; Cao P; Fu BJ; Hughes JM; He JZ	Ecological Drivers of Biogeographic Patterns of Soil Archaeal Community	PLOS ONE	Knowledge about the biogeography of organisms has long been a focus in ecological research, including the mechanisms that generate and maintain diversity. In this study, we targeted a microbial group relatively underrepresented in the microbial biogeographic literature, the soil Archaea. We surveyed the archaeal abundance and community composition using real-time quantitative PCR and T-RFLP approaches for 105 soil samples from 2 habitat types to identify the archaeal distribution patterns and factors driving these patterns. Results showed that the soil archaeal community was affected by spatial and environmental variables, and 79% and 51% of the community variation was explained in the non-flooded soil (NS) and flooded soil (FS) habitat, respectively, showing its possible biogeographic distribution. The diversity patterns of soil Archaea across the landscape were influenced by a combination of stochastic and deterministic processes. The contribution from neutral processes was higher than that from deterministic processes associated with environmental variables. The variables pH, sample depth and longitude played key roles in determining the archaeal distribution in the NS habitat, while sampling depth, longitude and NH4+-N were most important in the FS habitat. Overall, there might be similar ecological drivers in the soil archaeal community as in macroorganism communities.	2013	8	10.1371/journal.pone.0063375	YES	Dave	
Li T; Wang P	Biogeographical Distribution and Diversity of Bacterial Communities in Surface Sediments of the South China Sea	JOURNAL OF MICROBIOLOGY AND BIOTECHNOLOGY	This paper aims at an investigation of the features of bacterial communities in surface sediments of the South China Sea (SCS). In particular, biogeographical distribution patterns and the phylogenetic diversity of bacteria found in sediments collected from a coral reef platform, a continental slope, and a deep-sea basin were determined. Bacterial diversity was measured by an observation of 16S rRNA genes, and 18 phylogenetic groups were identified in the bacterial clone library. Planctomycetes, Deltaproteobacteria, candidate division OP11, and Alpha proteo bacteria made up the majority of the bacteria in the samples, with their mean bacterial clones being 16%, 15%, 12%, and 9%, respectively. By comparison, the bacterial communities found in the SCS surface sediments were significantly different from other previously observed deep-sea bacterial communities. This research also emphasizes the fact that geographical factors have an impact on the biogeographical distribution patterns of bacterial communities. For instance, canonical correspondence analyses illustrated that the percentage of sand weight and water depth are important factors affecting the bacterial community composition. Therefore, this study highlights the importance of adequately determining the relationship between geographical factors and the distribution of bacteria in the worlds seas and oceans.	2013	23	10.4014/jmb.1209.09040	MAYBE	Dave	
Brandsma J; Martinez JM; Slagter HA; Evans C; Brussaard CPD	Microbial biogeography of the North Sea during summer	BIOGEOCHEMISTRY	Micro-organisms are vital for the functioning of all food webs and are the major drivers of the global biogeochemical cycles. The microbial community compositions and physicochemical conditions of the different water masses in the North Sea, a biologically productive sea on the northwestern European continental shelf, were studied during two summer cruises, in order to provide detailed baseline data for this region and examine its microbial biogeography. For each cruise the stations were clustered according to their physicochemical characteristics and their microbial community composition. The largest cluster, which covered most of the central and northern North Sea, consisted of stations that were characterized by a thermally stratified water column and had low chlorophyll a autofluorescence and generally low microbial abundances. The second main cluster contained stations that were dominated by picoeukaryotes and showed the influence of influxes of North Atlantic water via the English Channel and south of the Shetland Islands. The third main cluster was formed by stations that were dominated by cyanobacteria and nanoeukaryotes in the reduced salinity Norwegian Coastal and Skagerrak waters, while the fourth cluster represented the German Bight, a region with strong riverine input, high nutrient concentrations, and consequently high heterotrophic bacterial and viral abundances. Despite the complex and dynamic hydrographic nature of the North Sea, the consistent distinctions in microbiology between these different hydrographic regions during both cruises illustrate the strong links between the microbial community and its environment, as well as the possibility to use microorganisms for long-term monitoring of environmental change.	2013	113	10.1007/s10533-012-9783-3	MAYBE	Dave	
Kirkham AR; Lepere C; Jardillier LE; Not F; Bouman H; Mead A; Scanlan DJ	A global perspective on marine photosynthetic picoeukaryote community structure	ISME JOURNAL	A central goal in ecology is to understand the factors affecting the temporal dynamics and spatial distribution of microorganisms and the underlying processes causing differences in community structure and composition. However, little is known in this respect for photosynthetic picoeukaryotes (PPEs), algae that are now recognised as major players in marine CO2 fixation. Here, we analysed dot blot hybridisation and cloning-sequencing data, using the plastid-encoded 16S rRNA gene, from seven research cruises that encompassed all four ocean biomes. We provide insights into global abundance, alpha- and beta-diversity distribution and the environmental factors shaping PPE community structure and composition. At the class level, the most commonly encountered PPEs were Prymnesiophyceae and Chrysophyceae. These taxa displayed complementary distribution patterns, with peak abundances of Prymnesiophyceae and Chrysophyceae in waters of high (25: 1) or low (12: 1) nitrogen: phosphorus (N:P) ratio, respectively. Significant differences in phylogenetic composition of PPEs were demonstrated for higher taxonomic levels between ocean basins, using Unifrac analyses of clone library sequence data. Differences in composition were generally greater between basins (interbasins) than within a basin (intrabasin). These differences were primarily linked to taxonomic variation in the composition of Prymnesiophyceae and Prasinophyceae whereas Chrysophyceae were phylogenetically similar in all libraries. These data provide better knowledge of PPE community structure across the world ocean and are crucial in assessing their evolution and contribution to CO2 fixation, especially in the context of global climate change. The ISME Journal (2013) 7, 922-936; doi:10.1038/ismej.2012.166; published online 31 January 2013	2013	7	10.1038/ismej.2012.166	MAYBE	Dave	
Logares R; Lindstrom ES; Langenheder S; Logue JB; Paterson H; Laybourn-Parry J; Rengefors K; Tranvik L; Bertilsson S	Biogeography of bacterial communities exposed to progressive long-term environmental change	ISME JOURNAL	The response of microbial communities to long-term environmental change is poorly understood. Here, we study bacterioplankton communities in a unique system of coastal Antarctic lakes that were exposed to progressive long-term environmental change, using 454 pyrosequencing of the 16S rDNA gene (V3-V4 regions). At the time of formation, most of the studied lakes harbored marine-coastal microbial communities, as they were connected to the sea. During the past 20 000 years, most lakes isolated from the sea, and subsequently they experienced a gradual, but strong, salinity change that eventually developed into a gradient ranging from freshwater (salinity 0) to hypersaline (salinity 100). Our results indicated that present bacterioplankton community composition was strongly correlated with salinity and weakly correlated with geographical distance between lakes. A few abundant taxa were shared between some lakes and coastal marine communities. Nevertheless, lakes contained a large number of taxa that were not detected in the adjacent sea. Abundant and rare taxa within saline communities presented similar biogeography, suggesting that these groups have comparable environmental sensitivity. Habitat specialists and generalists were detected among abundant and rare taxa, with specialists being relatively more abundant at the extremes of the salinity gradient. Altogether, progressive long-term salinity change appears to have promoted the diversification of bacterioplankton communities by modifying the composition of ancestral communities and by allowing the establishment of new taxa. The ISME Journal (2013) 7, 937-948; doi:10.1038/ismej.2012.168; published online 20 December 2012	2013	7	10.1038/ismej.2012.168	YES	Dave	
Kuang JL; Huang LN; Chen LX; Hua ZS; Li SJ; Hu M; Li JT; Shu WS	Contemporary environmental variation determines microbial diversity patterns in acid mine drainage	ISME JOURNAL	A wide array of microorganisms survive and thrive in extreme environments. However, we know little about the patterns of, and controls over, their large-scale ecological distribution. To this end, we have applied a bar-coded 16S rRNA pyrosequencing technology to explore the phylogenetic differentiation among 59 microbial communities from physically and geochemically diverse acid mine drainage (AMD) sites across Southeast China, revealing for the first time environmental variation as the major factor explaining community differences in these harsh environments. Our data showed that overall microbial diversity estimates, including phylogenetic diversity, phylotype richness and pairwise UniFrac distance, were largely correlated with pH conditions. Furthermore, multivariate regression tree analysis also identified solution pH as a strong predictor of relative lineage abundance. Betaproteobacteria, mostly affiliated with the Ferrovum genus, were explicitly predominant in assemblages under moderate pH conditions, whereas Alphaproteobacteria, Euryarchaeota, Gammaproteobacteria and Nitrospira exhibited a strong adaptation to more acidic environments. Strikingly, such pH-dependent patterns could also be observed in a subsequent comprehensive analysis of the environmental distribution of acidophilic microorganisms based on 16S rRNA gene sequences previously retrieved from globally distributed AMD and associated environments, regardless of the long-distance isolation and the distinct substrate types. Collectively, our results suggest that microbial diversity patterns are better predicted by contemporary environmental variation rather than geographical distance in extreme AMD systems. The ISME Journal (2013) 7, 1038-1050; doi:10.1038/ismej.2012.139; published online 22 November 2012	2013	7	10.1038/ismej.2012.139	MAYBE	Dave	
Lear G; Washington V; Neale M; Case B; Buckley H; Lewis G	The biogeography of stream bacteria	GLOBAL ECOLOGY AND BIOGEOGRAPHY	Aim The extent to which bacterial communities exhibit biogeographic patterns in their distribution remains unclear. We examined the relative influence of factors including geographic distance, latitude, elevation and catchment land use on the distribution and taxon richness of stream bacterial communities across New Zealand. Location Bacterial communities were collected from biofilm growing on submerged rocks in 244 streams. Sample sites spanned a northsouth gradient of over 970km, an elevational gradient of c. 750m and were collected from a variety of catchment types across New Zealand. Methods We used automated ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis, a DNA fingerprinting technique, to characterize the structure and taxon richness of each bacterial community. Key attributes relating to sample location, upstream catchment land use and a suite of additional environmental parameters were collected for every site using GIS procedures. Univariate correlations between measures of bacterial community structure and latitude, elevation and distance were examined. Variance partitioning was then used to assess the relative importance of purely spatial factors versus catchment land use and environmental attributes for determining bacterial community structure and taxon richness. Results Bacterial taxon richness was related to the geographic location of the sample site, being significantly greater at latitudes closer to the equator and reduced at higher elevations. We observed distance decay patterns in bacterial community similarity related to geographic distance and latitudinal distance, but not to elevational distance. Overall, however, bacterial community similarity and taxon richness was more closely related to variability in catchment land use than to climatic variability or geographic location. Main conclusion Our data suggest that stream biofilm communities across New Zealand are more influenced by catchment land use attributes than by dispersal limitation.	2013	22	10.1111/geb.12046	YES	Dave	
Lin W; Wang YZ; Gorby Y; Nealson K; Pan YX	Integrating niche-based process and spatial process in biogeography of magnetotactic bacteria	SCIENTIFIC REPORTS	Microorganisms play key roles in biogeochemical and nutrient cycling in all ecosystems on Earth, yet little is known about the processes controlling their biogeographic distributions. Here we report an investigation of magnetotactic bacteria (MTB) designed to evaluate the roles of niche-based process and spatial process in explaining variation in bacterial communities across large spatial scales. Our results show that both environmental heterogeneity and geographic distance play significant roles in shaping dominant populations of MTB community composition. At the spatial scale in this study, the biogeography of MTB is relatively more influenced by environmental factors than geographic distance, suggesting that local conditions override the effects of dispersal history on structuring MTB community. Of note, we found that the strength of geomagnetic field may influence the biogeography of MTB. We argue that MTB have the potential to serve as a model group to uncover the underlying processes that influence microbial biogeography.	2013	3	10.1038/srep01643	YES	Dave	
Dang HY; Zhou HX; Zhang ZN; Yu ZS; Hua E; Liu XS; Jiao NZ	Molecular Detection of Candidatus Scalindua pacifica and Environmental Responses of Sediment Anammox Bacterial Community in the Bohai Sea, China	PLOS ONE	The Bohai Sea is a large semi-enclosed shallow water basin, which receives extensive river discharges of various terrestrial and anthropogenic materials such as sediments, nutrients and contaminants. How these terrigenous inputs may influence the diversity, community structure, biogeographical distribution, abundance and ecophysiology of the sediment anaerobic ammonium oxidation (anammox) bacteria was unknown. To answer this question, an investigation employing both 16S rRNA and hzo gene biomarkers was carried out. Ca. Scalindua bacteria were predominant in the surface sediments of the Bohai Sea, while non-Scalindua anammox bacteria were also detected in the Yellow River estuary and inner part of Liaodong Bay that received strong riverine and anthropogenic impacts. A novel 16S rRNA gene sequence clade was identified, putatively representing an anammox bacterial new candidate species tentatively named Ca. Scalindua pacifica. Several groups of environmental factors, usually with distinct physicochemical or biogeochemical natures, including general marine and estuarine physicochemical properties, availability of anammox substrates (inorganic N compounds), alternative reductants and oxidants, environmental variations caused by river discharges and associated contaminants such as heavy metals, were identified to likely play important roles in influencing the ecology and biogeochemical functioning of the sediment anammox bacteria. In addition to inorganic N compounds that might play a key role in shaping the anammox microbiota, organic carbon, organic nitrogen, sulfate, sulfide and metals all showed the potentials to participate in the anammox process, releasing the strict dependence of the anammox bacteria upon the direct availability of inorganic N nutrients that might be limiting in certain areas of the Bohai Sea. The importance of inorganic N nutrients and certain other environmental factors to the sediment anammox microbiota suggests that these bacteria were active for the in situ N transforming process and maintained a versatile life style well adapted to the varying environmental conditions of the studied coastal ocean.	2013	8	10.1371/journal.pone.0061330	MAYBE	Dave	
Amend AS; Oliver TA; Amaral-Zettler LA; Boetius A; Fuhrman JA; Horner-Devine MC; Huse SM; Welch DBM; Martiny AC; Ramette A; Zinger L; Sogin ML; Martiny JBH	Macroecological patterns of marine bacteria on a global scale	JOURNAL OF BIOGEOGRAPHY	Aim To test whether within-species and among-species patterns of abundance and latitudinal range in marine bacteria resemble those found for macro-organisms, and whether these patterns differ along latitudinal clines. Location Global pelagic marine environments. Methods Taxon-specific sequence abundance and location were retrieved from the open-access V6-rRNA pyrotag sequence data base VAMPS (http://vamps.mbl.edu/), which holds a massive collection of marine bacterial community data sets from the International Census of Marine Microbes sampling effort of global ocean water masses. Data were randomly subsampled to correct for spatial bias and for differences in sampling effort. Results We show that bacterial latitudinal ranges are narrower than expected by chance. When present in both Northern and Southern hemispheres, taxa occupy restricted ranges at similar latitudes on both sides of the equator. A significant and positive relationship exists between sequence abundance and latitudinal range, although this pattern contains a large amount of variance. Abundant taxa in the tropics and in the Northern Hemisphere generally have smaller ranges than those in the Southern Hemisphere. We show that the mean latitudinal range of bacterial taxa increases with latitude, supporting the existence of a Rapoport effect in marine bacterioplankton. Finally, we show that bacterioplankton communities contain a higher proportion of abundant taxa as they approach the poles. Main conclusions Macroecological patterns such as the abundancerange relationship, in general, extend to marine bacteria. However, differences in the shape of these relationships between bacteria and macro-organisms call into question whether the processes and their relative importance in shaping global marine bacteria and macro-organism distributions are the same.	2013	40	10.1111/jbi.12034	MAYBE	Dave	
Makhalanyane TP; Valverde A; Lacap DC; Pointing SB; Tuffin MI; Cowan DA	Evidence of species recruitment and development of hot desert hypolithic communities	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY REPORTS	Hypoliths, photosynthetic microbial assemblages found underneath translucent rocks, are widely distributed within the western region of the Namib Desert and other similar environments. Terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) analysis was used to assess the bacterial community structure of hypoliths and surrounding soil (below and adjacent to the hypolithic rock) at a fine scale (10m radius). Multivariate analysis of T-RFs showed that hypolithic and soil communities were structurally distinct. T-RFLP-derived operational taxonomic units were linked to 16S rRNA gene clone libraries. Applying the ecological concept of indicator species, six and nine indicator lineages were identified for hypoliths and soil, respectively. Hypolithic communities were dominated by cyanobacteria affiliated to Pleurocapsales, whereas actinobacteria were prevalent in the soil. These results are consistent with the concept of species sorting and suggest that the bottom of the quartz rocks provides conditions suitable for the development of discrete and demonstrably different microbial assemblages. However, we found strong evidence for neutral assembly processes, as almost 90% of the taxa present in the hypoliths were also detected in the soil. These results suggest that hypolithons do not develop independently from microbial communities found in the surrounding soil, but selectively recruit from local populations.	2013	5	10.1111/1758-2229.12003	MAYBE	Dave	
McGuire KL; Payne SG; Palmer MI; Gillikin CM; Keefe D; Kim SJ; Gedallovich SM; Discenza J; Rangamannar R; Koshner JA; Massmann AL; Orazi G; Essene A; Leff JW; Fierer N	Digging the New York City Skyline: Soil Fungal Communities in Green Roofs and City Parks	PLOS ONE	In urban environments, green roofs provide a number of benefits, including decreased urban heat island effects and reduced energy costs for buildings. However, little research has been done on the non-plant biota associated with green roofs, which likely affect their functionality. For the current study, we evaluated whether or not green roofs planted with two native plant communities in New York City functioned as habitats for soil fungal communities, and compared fungal communities in green roof growing media to soil microbial composition in five city parks, including Central Park and the High Line. Ten replicate roofs were sampled one year after planting; three of these roofs were more intensively sampled and compared to nearby city parks. Using Illumina sequencing of the fungal ITS region we found that green roofs supported a diverse fungal community, with numerous taxa belonging to fungal groups capable of surviving in disturbed and polluted habitats. Across roofs, there was significant biogeographical clustering of fungal communities, indicating that community assembly of roof microbes across the greater New York City area is locally variable. Green roof fungal communities were compositionally distinct from city parks and only 54% of the green roof taxa were also found in the park soils. Phospholipid fatty acid analysis revealed that park soils had greater microbial biomass and higher bacterial to fungal ratios than green roof substrates. City park soils were also more enriched with heavy metals, had lower pH, and lower quantities of total bases (Ca, K, and Mg) compared to green roof substrates. While fungal communities were compositionally distinct across green roofs, they did not differentiate by plant community. Together, these results suggest that fungi living in the growing medium of green roofs may be an underestimated component of these biotic systems functioning to support some of the valued ecological services of green roofs.	2013	8	10.1371/journal.pone.0058020	YES	Dave	
Flores CO; Valverde S; Weitz JS	Multi-scale structure and geographic drivers of cross-infection within marine bacteria and phages	ISME JOURNAL	Bacteriophages are the most abundant biological life forms on Earth. However, relatively little is known regarding which bacteriophages infect and exploit which bacteria. A recent meta-analysis showed that empirically measured phage-bacteria infection networks are often significantly nested, on average, and not modular. A perfectly nested network is one in which phages can be ordered from specialist to generalist such that the host range of a given phage is a subset of the host range of the subsequent phage in the ordering. The same meta-analysis hypothesized that modularity, in which groups of phages specialize on distinct groups of hosts, should emerge at larger geographic and/or taxonomic scales. In this paper, we evaluate the largest known phage-bacteria interaction data set, representing the interaction of 215 phage types with 286 host types sampled from geographically separated sites in the Atlantic Ocean. We find that this interaction network is highly modular. In addition, some of the modules identified in this data set are nested or contain submodules, indicating the presence of multi-scale structure, as hypothesized in the earlier meta-analysis. We examine the role of geography in driving these patterns and find evidence that the host range of phages and the phage permissibility of bacteria is driven, in part, by geographic separation. We conclude by discussing approaches to disentangle the roles of ecology and evolution in driving complex patterns of interaction between phages and bacteria. The ISME Journal (2013) 7, 520-532; doi:10.1038/ismej.2012.135; published online 22 November 2012	2013	7	10.1038/ismej.2012.135	MAYBE	Dave	
Bates ST; Clemente JC; Flores GE; Walters WA; Parfrey LW; Knight R; Fierer N	Global biogeography of highly diverse protistan communities in soil	ISME JOURNAL	Protists are ubiquitous members of soil microbial communities, but the structure of these communities, and the factors that influence their diversity, are poorly understood. We used barcoded pyrosequencing to survey comprehensively the diversity of soil protists from 40 sites across a broad geographic range that represent a variety of biome types, from tropical forests to deserts. In addition to taxa known to be dominant in soil, including Cercozoa and Ciliophora, we found high relative abundances of groups such as Apicomplexa and Dinophyceae that have not previously been recognized as being important components of soil microbial communities. Soil protistan communities were highly diverse, approaching the extreme diversity of their bacterial counterparts across the same sites. Like bacterial taxa, protistan taxa were not globally distributed, and the composition of these communities diverged considerably across large geographic distances. However, soil protistan and bacterial communities exhibit very different global-scale biogeographical patterns, with protistan communities strongly structured by climatic conditions that regulate annual soil moisture availability. The ISME Journal (2013) 7, 652-659; doi:10.1038/ismej.2012.147; published online 13 December 2012	2013	7	10.1038/ismej.2012.147	YES	Dave	
Zhaxybayeva O; Stepanauskas R; Mohan NR; Papke RT	Cell sorting analysis of geographically separated hypersaline environments	EXTREMOPHILES	Biogeography of microbial populations remains to be poorly understood, and a novel technique of single cell sorting promises a new level of resolution for microbial diversity studies. Using single cell sorting, we compared saturated NaCl brine environments (32-35 %) of the South Bay Salt Works in Chula Vista in California (USA) and Santa Pola saltern near Alicante (Spain). Although some overlap in community composition was detected, both samples were significantly different and included previously undiscovered 16S rRNA sequences. The community from Chula Vista saltern had a large bacterial fraction, which consisted of diverse Bacteroidetes and Proteobacteria. In contrast, Archaea dominated Santa Polas community and its bacterial fraction consisted of the previously known Salinibacter lineages. The recently reported group of halophilic Archaea, Nanohaloarchaea, was detected at both sites. We demonstrate that cell sorting is a useful technique for analysis of halophilic microbial communities, and is capable of identifying yet unknown or divergent lineages. Furthermore, we argue that observed differences in community composition reflect restricted dispersal between sites, a likely mechanism for diversification of halophilic microorganisms.	2013	17	10.1007/s00792-013-0514-z	MAYBE	Dave	
Shen CC; Xiong JB; Zhang HY; Feng YZ; Lin XG; Li XY; Liang WJ; Chu HY	Soil pH drives the spatial distribution of bacterial communities along elevation on Changbai Mountain	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	The elevational patterns of diversity for plants and animals have been well established over the past century. However, it is unclear whether there is a general elevational distribution pattern for microbes. Changbai Mountain is one of few well conserved natural ecosystems, where the vertical distribution of vegetation is known to mirror the vegetation horizontal zonation from temperate to frigid zones on the Eurasian continent. Here, we present a comprehensive analysis of soil bacterial community composition and diversity along six elevations representing six typical vegetation types from forest to alpine tundra using a bar-coded pyrosequencing technique. The bacterial communities differed dramatically along elevations (vegetation types), and the community composition was significantly correlated with soil pH, carbon/nitrogen ratio (C/N), moisture or total organic carbon (TOC), respectively. Phylogenetic diversity was positively correlated with soil pH (P = 0.024), while phylotype richness was positively correlated with soil pH (P = 0.004), total nitrogen (TN) (P = 0.030), and negatively correlated with C/N ratio (P = 0.021). Our results emphasize that pH is a better predictor of soil bacterial elevational distribution and also suggest that vegetation types may indirectly affect soil bacterial elevational distribution through altering soil C and N status. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2013	57	10.1016/j.soilbio.2012.07.013	MAYBE	Dave	
Ranjard L; Dequiedt S; Prevost-Boure NC; Thioulouse J; Saby NPA; Lelievre M; Maron PA; Morin FER; Bispo A; Jolivet C; Arrouays D; Lemanceau P	Turnover of soil bacterial diversity driven by wide-scale environmental heterogeneity	NATURE COMMUNICATIONS	Spatial scaling and determinism of the wide-scale distribution of macroorganism diversity has been largely demonstrated over a century. For microorganisms, and especially for soil bacteria, this fundamental question requires more thorough investigation, as little information has been reported to date. Here by applying the taxa-area relationship to the largest spatially explicit soil sampling available in France (2,085 soils, area covered similar to 5.3 x 10(5) km(2)) and developing an innovative evaluation of the habitat-area relationship, we show that the turnover rate of bacterial diversity in soils on a wide scale is highly significant and strongly correlated with the turnover rate of soil habitat. As the diversity of micro-and macroorganisms appears to be driven by similar processes (dispersal and selection), maintaining diverse and spatially structured habitats is essential for soil biological patrimony and the resulting ecosystem services.	2013	4	10.1038/ncomms2431	MAYBE	Dave	
Toner BM; Lesniewski RA; Marlow JJ; Briscoe LJ; Santelli CM; Bach W; Orcutt BN; Edwards KJ	Mineralogy Drives Bacterial Biogeography of Hydrothermally Inactive Seafloor Sulfide Deposits	GEOMICROBIOLOGY JOURNAL	Mid-ocean ridge hydrothermal venting creates sulfide deposits containing gradients in mineralogy, fluid chemistry, and temperature. Even when hydrothermal circulation ceases, sulfides are known to host microbial communities. The relationship between mineralogy and microbial community composition in low-temperature, rock-hosted systems has not been resolved at any spatial scale, local or global. To examine the hypothesis that geochemistry of seafloor deposits is a dominant parameter driving environmental pressure for bacterial communities at low-temperature, the shared community membership, richness, and structure was measured using 16S rRNA gene sequences. The focus of the study was on hydrothermally inactive seafloor deposits from multiple locations within one deposit (e.g., single extinct chimney), within one vent field (intra-vent field), and among globally distributed vent fields from three ocean basins (inter-vent field). Distinct mineral substrates, such as hydrothermally inactive sulfides versus basalts, host different communities at low temperature in spite of close geographic proximity and contact with the same hydrothermally influenced deep-sea water. Furthermore, bacterial communities inhabiting hydrothermally inactive sulfide deposits from geographically distant locations cluster together in community cladograms to the exclusion of other deep-sea substrates and settings. From this study, we conclude that at low temperature, mineralogy was a more important variable determining microbial community composition than geographic factors. Supplemental materials are available for this article. Go to the publishers online edition of Geomicrobiology Journal to view the supplemental file.	2013	30	10.1080/01490451.2012.688925	MAYBE	Dave	
Azovsky A; Mazei Y	Do microbes have macroecology? Large-scale patterns in the diversity and distribution of marine benthic ciliates	GLOBAL ECOLOGY AND BIOGEOGRAPHY	Aim The biogeography and global distribution of protists has long been disputed, with two primary, opposing views. To test these two sets of views in greater detail, we have compiled the available data for marine benthic ciliates and assessed the general patterns of their diversity and distribution compared with Metazoa. Location World-wide. Methods A comprehensive database (1342 species, over 350 sources) was used to analyse the diversity, distribution, species occurrences and range size distribution of free-living ciliates that inhabit marine sediments in 17 geographical regions. Results Twenty-five per cent of the species have been found in a single region only, whereas 18% are widespread (they occur in more than half the regions covering both hemispheres). Only 57% of regional faunas are endemic, which is much lower than for macroorganisms. Regional diversity depends neither on total area nor on coastline length and does not show any obvious latitudinal trends, but correlates highly with the investigation effort expended in a region and (negatively) with the average salinity. A comparison of species composition reveals distinctions between the Arctic Area (the White, Barents and Kara seas), Laurasian Area (north Atlantic, north Pacific and European seas), Gondwanian Area (Southern Ocean) and the Antarctic. No clear geographical correlations are found for faunistic composition at the genus or family levels. There is the tendency to narrow the latitudinal ranges for species found at high latitudes (reversal of Rapoports rule). Main conclusions Undersampling and data insufficiency are the key factors affecting the observed diversity and distribution of microorganisms. Nevertheless, marine benthic ciliates demonstrate certain patterns that generally agree with the moderate endemicity model (Foissner, 2004, 2008), but consistently contradict the regularities commonly observed for multicellular taxa. Thus, ciliates do have a biogeography, but their macroecological patterns may be different in some respects from that of macroorganisms.	2013	22	10.1111/j.1466-8238.2012.00776.x	YES	Dave	
Kim M; Boldgiv B; Singh D; Chun J; Lkhagva A; Adams JM	Structure of soil bacterial communities in relation to environmental variables in a semi-arid region of Mongolia	JOURNAL OF ARID ENVIRONMENTS	Patterns in soil bacterial communities, and the factors that determine them, have been little explored in arid and semi-arid environments. It is unclear to what extent the diversity and community composition of arid-land soil bacterial communities follow vegetation habitats, or conversely other relatively independent soil variables. It is also unclear whether the factors (e.g. pH) that contribute to variation in bacterial communities in some moister environments also operate on a local scale in semi-arid environments. To identify the main factors in shaping bacterial community structure in semi-arid environments, we sampled a mosaic of habitats under different vegetation, landscape and edaphic conditions in central Mongolia, including steppe, forest-steppe, and abandoned wheat field. Soil DNA was extracted and pyrosequenced for 16S rRNA gene identification. NMDS results showed that bacterial community structures are slightly different from one habitat to another. However, the similarity between communities both within and between habitats is determined more strongly by soil texture than by vegetation type and drainage conditions. Moreover, the relative abundances of certain phyla are correlated with specific soil properties such as salinity and soil texture, in ways that have not previously been found in semi-arid environments. Actinobacteria, for example, show a negative correlation with salinity and Bacteroidetes display a positive relationship with percentage silt and clay. It also appears that the most important environmental variables (soil texture and salinity) affecting the bacterial community within this semi-arid environment are different from those found in moister environments, with no detectable effect of pH. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2013	89	10.1016/j.jaridenv.2012.09.014	MAYBE	Dave	
Olsen LM; Van Ardelan M; Hewes CD; Holm-Hansen O; Reiss C; Bizsel N; Sakshaug E; Vadstein O	Microbial biogeography during austral summer 2007 in the surface waters around the South Shetland Islands, Antarctica	AQUATIC MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Recent studies have concluded that different water bodies in the ocean can contain different microbial communities. The goal of the present study was to determine if biogeographic patterns are present for aquatic microbes in waters which meet around the South Shetland Islands (SSI), Antarctica. Prokaryotic and eukaryotic marine microbial communities were monitored during the 2007 austral summer by use of polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) of small subunit ribosomal DNA. Hydrographic properties, nutrients and chlorophyll a were also measured. There was an onshore to offshore gradient in temperature, salinity and iron concentration and a unimodal distribution of chlorophyll a concentration in relation to the middle of this gradient that occurred near the SSI. The differences in microbial community structure among stations in the studied area were correlated with both geographical distance and environmental factors. For eukaryotes, the correlation was strongest for environment, whereas it was strongest for geographical distance for the prokaryotes. Eukaryotic and prokaryotic community structures were highly correlated. Surface water from the Weddell Sea had a different community of eukaryotes than the water in the Antarctic Circumpolar Current in the Drake Passage, whereas the prokaryotic community was not significantly different. The area close to the SSI where the 2 water types mix had the highest chlorophyll concentration and significantly different communities of eukaryotes and prokaryotes from both of the inflowing water types. These results suggest that the prokaryote community structure was more affected by productivity than by environmental variables.	2013	70	10.3354/ame01650	YES	Dave	
Mapelli F; Varela MM; Barbato M; Alvarino R; Fusi M; Alvarez M; Merlino G; Daffonchio D; Borin S	Biogeography of planktonic bacterial communities across the whole Mediterranean Sea	OCEAN SCIENCE	Bacterial population distribution in the Mediterranean Sea has been mainly studied by considering small geographical areas or specific phylogenetic groups. The present study is a molecular microbiology investigation aimed to identify the environmental factors driving total bacterioplankton community composition of seawater samples collected along a transect covering the whole Mediterranean Sea. We performed automated ribosomal intergenic sequence analysis (ARISA) and microscope evaluation of prokaryotic abundance of seawater sampled across both vertical profiles and longitudinal transects in the whole basin. Prokaryotic abundance decreased with depth at all the stations and presented similar values in epi-, meso- and bathypelagic layers across the whole Mediterranean Sea. However, peculiar bacterial assemblages were selected along a longitudinal transect in the epipelagic layers of the eastern and western sub-basins. Vertical differences of the bacterial communities were observed only when considering the epi- and bathypelagic waters, while the study of the structure of bacterial communities at a finer scale across the water column displayed higher variability at the intermediate layers. Nonetheless, different physico-chemical factors were significantly related to the distribution of bacterial populations, both according to geographic position and down the water column in the whole Mediterranean Sea. These results demonstrated that bacterial assemblages are putatively correlated to different water masses of the complex hydrographical systems of the eastern and western Mediterranean sub-basins.	2013	9	10.5194/os-9-585-2013	YES	Dave	
Amano-Sato C; Akiyama S; Uchida M; Shimada K; Utsumi M	Archaeal distribution and abundance in water masses of the Arctic Ocean, Pacific sector	AQUATIC MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Marine planktonic Archaea have been recently recognized as an ecologically important component of marine prokaryotic biomass in the worlds oceans. Their abundance and metabolism are closely connected with marine geochemical cycling. We evaluated the distribution of planktonic Archaea in the Pacific sector of the Arctic Ocean using fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) with catalyzed reporter deposition (CARD-FISH) and performed statistical analyses using data for archaeal abundance and geochemical variables. The relative abundance of Thaumarchaeota generally increased with depth, and euryarchaeal abundance was the lowest of all planktonic prokaryotes. Multiple regression analysis showed that the thaumarchaeal relative abundance was negatively correlated with ammonium and dissolved oxygen concentrations and chlorophyll fluorescence. Canonical correspondence analysis showed that archaeal distributions differed with oceanographic water masses; in particular, Thaumarchaeota were abundant from the halocline layer to deep water, where salinity was higher and most nutrients were depleted. However, at several stations on the East Siberian Sea side of the study area and along the Northwind Ridge, Thaumarchaeota and Bacteria were proportionally very abundant at the bottom in association with higher nutrient conditions. The abundance of Euryarchaeota was high (>1.0 x 10(5) cells ml(-1)) at one of our stations in the Chukchi Sea and was positively correlated with temperature and ammonium concentration, suggesting that there could be hot spots with increased euryarchaeal abundance in the Arctic Ocean.	2013	69	10.3354/ame01624	MAYBE	Dave	
Youngblut ND; Shade A; Read JS; McMahon KD; Whitaker RJ	Lineage-Specific Responses of Microbial Communities to Environmental Change	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	A great challenge facing microbial ecology is how to define ecologically relevant taxonomic units. To address this challenge, we investigated how changing the definition of operational taxonomic units (OTUs) influences the perception of ecological patterns in microbial communities as they respond to a dramatic environmental change. We used pyrosequenced tags of the bacterial V2 16S rRNA region, as well as clone libraries constructed from the cytochrome oxidase C gene ccoN, to provide additional taxonomic resolution for the common freshwater genus Polynucleobacter. At the most highly resolved taxonomic scale, we show that distinct genotypes associated with the abundant Polynucleobacter lineages exhibit divergent spatial patterns and dramatic changes over time, while the also abundant Actinobacteria OTUs are highly coherent. This clearly demonstrates that different bacterial lineages demand different taxonomic definitions to capture ecological patterns. Based on the temporal distribution of highly resolved taxa in the hypolimnion, we demonstrate that change in the population structure of a single genotype can provide additional insight into the mechanisms of community-level responses. These results highlight the importance and feasibility of examining ecological change in microbial communities across taxonomic scales while also providing valuable insight into the ecological characteristics of ecologically coherent groups in this system.	2013	79	10.1128/AEM.02226-12	MAYBE	Dave	
Dang HY; Yang JY; Li J; Luan XW; Zhang YB; Gu GZ; Xue RR; Zong MY; Klotz MG	Environment-Dependent Distribution of the Sediment nifH-Harboring Microbiota in the Northern South China Sea	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	The South China Sea (SCS), the largest marginal sea in the Western Pacific Ocean, is a huge oligotrophic water body with very limited influx of nitrogenous nutrients. This suggests that sediment microbial N-2 fixation plays an important role in the production of bioavailable nitrogen. To test the molecular underpinning of this hypothesis, the diversity, abundance, biogeographical distribution, and community structure of the sediment diazotrophic microbiota were investigated at 12 sampling sites, including estuarine, coastal, offshore, deep-sea, and methane hydrate reservoirs or their prospective areas by targeting nifH and some other functional biomarker genes. Diverse and novel nifH sequences were obtained, significantly extending the evolutionary complexity of extant nifH genes. Statistical analyses indicate that sediment in situ temperature is the most significant environmental factor influencing the abundance, community structure, and spatial distribution of the sediment nifH-harboring microbial assemblages in the northern SCS (nSCS). The significantly positive correlation of the sediment pore water NH4+ concentration with the nifH gene abundance suggests that the nSCS sediment nifH-harboring microbiota is active in N-2 fixation and NH4+ production. Several other environmental factors, including sediment pore water PO43- concentration, sediment organic carbon, nitrogen and phosphorus levels, etc., are also important in influencing the community structure, spatial distribution, or abundance of the nifH-harboring microbial assemblages. We also confirmed that the nifH genes encoded by archaeal diazotrophs in the ANME-2c subgroup occur exclusively in the deep-sea methane seep areas, providing for the possibility to develop ANME-2c nifH genes as a diagnostic tool for deep-sea methane hydrate reservoir discovery.	2013	79	10.1128/AEM.01889-12	MAYBE	Dave	
Bahram M; Koljalg U; Kohout P; Mirshahvaladi S; Tedersoo L	Ectomycorrhizal fungi of exotic pine plantations in relation to native host trees in Iran: evidence of host range expansion by local symbionts to distantly related host taxa	MYCORRHIZA	Introduction of exotic plants change soil microbial communities which may have detrimental ecological consequences for ecosystems. In this study, we examined the community structure and species richness of ectomycorrhizal (EcM) fungi associated with exotic pine plantations in relation to adjacent native ectomycorrhizal trees in Iran to elucidate the symbiont exchange between distantly related hosts, i.e. Fagales (Fagaceae and Betulaceae) and Pinaceae. The combination of morphological and molecular identification approaches revealed that 84.6 % of species with more than one occurrence (at least once on pines) were shared with native trees and only 5.9 % were found exclusively on pine root tips. The community diversity of ectomycorrhizal fungi in the pine plantations adjacent to native EcM trees was comparable to their adjacent native trees, but the isolated plantations hosted relatively a species-poor community. Specific mycobionts of conifers were dominant in the isolated plantation while rarely found in the plantations adjacent to native EcM trees. These data demonstrate the importance of habitat isolation and dispersal limitation of EcM fungi in their potential of host range expansion. The great number of shared and possibly compatible symbiotic species between exotic Pinaceae and local Fagales (Fagaceae and Betulaceae) may reflect their evolutionary adaptations and/or ancestral compatibility with one another.	2013	23	10.1007/s00572-012-0445-z	MAYBE	Dave	
Giles EC; Kamke J; Moitinho-Silva L; Taylor MW; Hentschel U; Ravasi T; Schmitt S	Bacterial community profiles in low microbial abundance sponges	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	It has long been recognized that sponges differ in the abundance of associated microorganisms, and they are therefore termed either low microbial abundance (LMA) or high microbial abundance (HMA) sponges. Many previous studies concentrated on the dense microbial communities in HMA sponges, whereas little is known about microorganisms in LMA sponges. Here, two LMA sponges from the Red Sea, two from the Caribbean and one from the South Pacific were investigated. With up to only five bacterial phyla per sponge, all LMA sponges showed lower phylum-level diversity than typical HMA sponges. Interestingly, each LMA sponge was dominated by a large clade within either Cyanobacteria or different classes of Proteobacteria. The overall similarity of bacterial communities among LMA sponges determined by operational taxonomic unit and UniFrac analysis was low. Also the number of sponge-specific clusters, which indicate bacteria specifically associated with sponges and which are numerous in HMA sponges, was low. A biogeographical or host-dependent distribution pattern was not observed. In conclusion, bacterial community profiles of LMA sponges are clearly different from profiles of HMA sponges and, remarkably, each LMA sponge seems to harbour its own unique bacterial community.	2013	83	10.1111/j.1574-6941.2012.01467.x	MAYBE	Dave	
Fierer N; Leff JW; Adams BJ; Nielsen UN; Bates ST; Lauber CL; Owens S; Gilbert JA; Wall DH; Caporaso JG	Cross-biome metagenomic analyses of soil microbial communities and their functional attributes	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	For centuries ecologists have studied how the diversity and functional traits of plant and animal communities vary across biomes. In contrast, we have only just begun exploring similar questions for soil microbial communities despite soil microbes being the dominant engines of biogeochemical cycles and a major pool of living biomass in terrestrial ecosystems. We used metagenomic sequencing to compare the composition and functional attributes of 16 soil microbial communities collected from cold deserts, hot deserts, forests, grasslands, and tundra. Those communities found in plant-free cold desert soils typically had the lowest levels of functional diversity (diversity of protein-coding gene categories) and the lowest levels of phylogenetic and taxonomic diversity. Across all soils, functional beta diversity was strongly correlated with taxonomic and phylogenetic beta diversity; the desert microbial communities were clearly distinct from the nondesert communities regardless of the metric used. The desert communities had higher relative abundances of genes associated with osmoregulation and dormancy, but lower relative abundances of genes associated with nutrient cycling and the catabolism of plant-derived organic compounds. Antibiotic resistance genes were consistently threefold less abundant in the desert soils than in the nondesert soils, suggesting that abiotic conditions, not competitive interactions, are more important in shaping the desert microbial communities. As the most comprehensive survey of soil taxonomic, phylogenetic, and functional diversity to date, this study demonstrates that metagenomic approaches can be used to build a predictive understanding of how microbial diversity and function vary across terrestrial biomes.	2012	109	10.1073/pnas.1215210110	MAYBE	Dave	
Peralta AL; Matthews JW; Flanagan DN; Kent AD	Environmental Factors at Dissimilar Spatial Scales Influence Plant and Microbial Communities in Restored Wetlands	WETLANDS	Identifying environmental factors that contribute to plant and microbial community variation at different spatial scales can provide critical information for restoration of these communities and the ecosystem services they provide. The objectives of this study were to (i) quantify the relationships among landscape/local environmental factors and plant, bacterial and denitrifier communities, and (ii) assess the spatial relationships between environmental and biological community matrices in 27 restored Illinois wetlands. We hypothesized that plant and microbial community composition are sensitive to different environmental factors operating at local compared to landscape scales. We surveyed plant assemblages, overall bacterial communities, and denitrifying bacteria. Landscape (surrounding land cover, regional climate variables) and local soil factors (soil organic matter, moisture, inorganic nitrogen, pH, redox status) were also assessed. Land use, temperature, and nitrogen availability influenced plant community composition. In contrast, microbial community composition was correlated with local soil factors, especially pH. Our results demonstrated that plant communities in restored wetlands are influenced by both landscape and local factors, whereas microbial communities are more strongly influenced by local soil factors. Choosing restoration sites based on environmental conditions known to support particular plant or microbial communities may enhance recovery of ecosystem services mediated by plants and soil microorganisms.	2012	32	10.1007/s13157-012-0343-3	MAYBE	Dave	
Jiang XP; Langille MGI; Neches RY; Elliot M; Levin SA; Eisen JA; Weitz JS; Dushoff J	Functional Biogeography of Ocean Microbes Revealed through Non-Negative Matrix Factorization	PLOS ONE	The direct metagenomic sequencing of genomic material from complex assemblages of bacteria, archaea, viruses and microeukaryotes has yielded new insights into the structure of microbial communities. For example, analysis of metagenomic data has revealed the existence of previously unknown microbial taxa whose spatial distributions are limited by environmental conditions, ecological competition, and dispersal mechanisms. However, differences in genotypes that might lead biologists to designate two microbes as taxonomically distinct need not necessarily imply differences in ecological function. Hence, there is a growing need for large-scale analysis of the distribution of microbial function across habitats. Here, we present a framework for investigating the biogeography of microbial function by analyzing the distribution of protein families inferred from environmental sequence data across a global collection of sites. We map over 6,000,000 protein sequences from unassembled reads from the Global Ocean Survey dataset to 8214 protein families, generating a protein family relative abundance matrix that describes the distribution of each protein family across sites. We then use non-negative matrix factorization (NMF) to approximate these protein family profiles as linear combinations of a small number of ecological components. Each component has a characteristic functional profile and site profile. Our approach identifies common functional signatures within several of the components. We use our method as a filter to estimate functional distance between sites, and find that an NMF-filtered measure of functional distance is more strongly correlated with environmental distance than a comparable PCA-filtered measure. We also find that functional distance is more strongly correlated with environmental distance than with geographic distance, in agreement with prior studies. We identify similar protein functions in several components and suggest that functional co-occurrence across metagenomic samples could lead to future methods for de-novo functional prediction. We conclude by discussing how NMF, and other dimension reduction methods, can help enable a macroscopic functional description of marine ecosystems.	2012	7	10.1371/journal.pone.0043866	MAYBE	Dave	
Wetzel CE; Bicudo DD; Ector L; Lobo EA; Soininen J; Landeiro VL; Bini LM	Distance Decay of Similarity in Neotropical Diatom Communities	PLOS ONE	Background: The regression of similarity against distance unites several ecological phenomena, and thus provides a highly useful approach for illustrating the spatial turnover across sites. Our aim was to test whether the rates of decay in community similarity differ between diatom growth forms suggested to show different dispersal ability. We hypothesized that the diatom group with lower dispersal ability (i.e. periphyton) would show higher distance decay rates than a group with higher dispersal ability (i.e. plankton). Methods/Principal findings: Periphyton and phytoplankton samples were gathered at sites distributed over an area of approximately 800 km length in the Negro River, Amazon basin, Brazil, South America (3 degrees 0800  S; 59 degrees 5430  W). Distance decay relationships were then estimated using distance-based regressions, and the coefficients of these regressions were compared among the groups with different dispersal abilities to assess our predictions. We found evidence that different tributaries and reaches of the Negro River harbor different diatom communities. As expected, the rates of distance decay in community similarity were higher for periphyton than for phytoplankton indicating the lower dispersal ability of periphytic taxa. Conclusions/Significance: Our study demonstrates that the comparison of distance decay relationships among taxa with similar ecological requirements, but with different growth form and thus dispersal ability provides a sound approach to evaluate the effects of dispersal ability on beta diversity patterns. Our results are also in line with the growing body of evidence indicating that microorganisms exhibit biogeographic patterns. Finally, we underscore that clumbing all microbial taxa into one group may be a flawed approach to test whether microbes exhibit biogeographic patterns.	2012	7	10.1371/journal.pone.0045071	YES	Dave	
Tedersoo L; Bahram M; Toots M; Diedhiou AG; Henkel TW; Kjoller R; Morris MH; Nara K; Nouhra E; Peay KG; Polme S; Ryberg M; Smith ME; Koljalg U	Towards global patterns in the diversity and community structure of ectomycorrhizal fungi	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	Global species richness patterns of soil micro-organisms remain poorly understood compared to macro-organisms. We use a global analysis to disentangle the global determinants of diversity and community composition for ectomycorrhizal (EcM) fungi-microbial symbionts that play key roles in plant nutrition in most temperate and many tropical forest ecosystems. Host plant family has the strongest effect on the phylogenetic community composition of fungi, whereas temperature and precipitation mostly affect EcM fungal richness that peaks in the temperate and boreal forest biomes, contrasting with latitudinal patterns of macro-organisms. Tropical ecosystems experience rapid turnover of organic material and have weak soil stratification, suggesting that poor habitat conditions may contribute to the relatively low richness of EcM fungi, and perhaps other soil biota, in most tropical ecosystems. For EcM fungi, greater evolutionary age and larger total area of EcM host vegetation may also contribute to the higher diversity in temperate ecosystems. Our results provide useful biogeographic and ecological hypotheses for explaining the distribution of fungi that remain to be tested by involving next-generation sequencing techniques and relevant soil metadata.	2012	21	10.1111/j.1365-294X.2012.05602.x	MAYBE	Dave	
Crump BC; Amaral-Zettler LA; Kling GW	Microbial diversity in arctic freshwaters is structured by inoculation of microbes from soils	ISME JOURNAL	Microbes are transported in hydrological networks through many environments, but the nature and dynamics of underlying microbial metacommunities and the impact of downslope inoculation on patterns of microbial diversity across landscapes are unknown. Pyrosequencing of small subunit ribosomal RNA gene hypervariable regions to characterize microbial communities along a hydrological continuum in arctic tundra showed a pattern of decreasing diversity downslope, with highest species richness in soil waters and headwater streams, and lowest richness in lake water. In a downstream lake, 58% and 43% of the bacterial and archaeal taxa, respectively, were also detected in diverse upslope communities, including most of the numerically dominant lake taxa. In contrast, only 18% of microbial eukaryotic taxa in the lake were detected upslope. We suggest that patterns of diversity in surface waters are structured by initial inoculation from microbial reservoirs in soils followed by a species-sorting process during downslope dispersal of both common and rare microbial taxa. Our results suggest that, unlike for metazoans, a substantial portion of bacterial and archaeal diversity in surface freshwaters may originate in complex soil environments. The ISME Journal (2012) 6, 1629-1639; doi:10.1038/ismej.2012.9; published online 1 March 2012	2012	6	10.1038/ismej.2012.9	MAYBE	Dave	
Xiong JB; Liu YQ; Lin XG; Zhang HY; Zeng J; Hou JZ; Yang YP; Yao TD; Knight R; Chu HY	Geographic distance and pH drive bacterial distribution in alkaline lake sediments across Tibetan Plateau	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Continent-scale biogeography has been extensively studied in soils and marine systems, but little is known about biogeographical patterns in non-marine sediments. We used barcode pyrosequencing to quantify the effects of local geochemical properties and geographic distance for bacterial community structure and membership, using sediment samples from 15 lakes on the Tibetan Plateau (41670 km apart). Bacterial communities were surprisingly diverse, and distinct from soil communities. Four of 26 phyla detected were dominant: Proteobacteria, Bacteroidetes, Firmicutes and Actinobacteria, albeit 20.2% of sequences were unclassified at the phylum level. As previously observed in acidic soil, pH was the dominant factor influencing alkaline sediment community structure, phylotype richness and phylogenetic diversity. In contrast, archaeal communities were less affected by pH. More geographically distant sites had more dissimilar communities (r = 0.443, P = 0.030). Variance partitioning analysis showed that geographic distance (historical contingencies) contributed more to bacterial community variation (12.2%) than any other factor, although the environmental factors explained more variance when combined (28.9%). Together, our results show that pH is the best predictor of bacterial community structure in alkaline sediments, and confirm that both geographic distance and chemical factors govern bacterial biogeography in lake sediments.	2012	14	10.1111/j.1462-2920.2012.02799.x	YES	Dave	
Finkel OM; Burch AY; Elad T; Huse SM; Lindow SE; Post AF; Belkin S	Distance-Decay Relationships Partially Determine Diversity Patterns of Phyllosphere Bacteria on Tamrix Trees across the Sonoran Desert	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Dispersal limitation in phyllosphere communities was measured on the leaf surfaces of salt-excreting Tamarix trees, which offer unique, discrete habitats for microbial assemblages. We employed 16S rRNA gene pyrosequencing to measure bacterial community dissimilarity on leaves of spatially dispersed Tamarix specimens in sites with uniform climatic conditions across the Sonoran Desert in the Southwestern United States. Our analyses revealed diverse bacterial communities with four dominant phyla that exhibited differential effects of environmental and geographic variables. Geographical distance was the most important parameter that affected community composition, particularly that of betaproteobacteria, which displayed a statistically significant, distance-decay relationship.	2012	78	10.1128/AEM.00888-12	YES	Dave	
Pommier T; Douzery EJP; Mouillot D	Environment drives high phylogenetic turnover among oceanic bacterial communities	BIOLOGY LETTERS	Although environmental filtering has been observed to influence the biodiversity patterns of marine bacterial communities, it was restricted to the regional scale and to the species level, leaving the main drivers unknown at large biogeographic scales and higher taxonomic levels. Bacterial communities with different species compositions may nevertheless share phylogenetic lineages, and phylogenetic turnover (PT) among those communities may be surprisingly low along any biogeographic or environmental gradient. Here, we investigated the relative influence of environmental filtering and geographical distance on the PT between marine bacterial communities living more than 8000 km apart in contrasted abiotic conditions. PT was high between communities and was more structured by local environmental factors than by geographical distance, suggesting the predominance of a lineage filtering process. Strong phenotype-environment mismatches observed in the ocean may surpass high connectivity between marine microbial communities.	2012	8	10.1098/rsbl.2011.0990	YES	Dave	
Zimmerman NB; Vitousek PM	Fungal endophyte communities reflect environmental structuring across a Hawaiian landscape	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	We surveyed endophytic fungal communities in leaves of a single tree species (Metrosideros polymorpha) across wide environmental gradients (500-5,500 mm of rain/y; 10-22 degrees C mean annual temperature) spanning short geographic distances on Mauna Loa Volcano, Hawaii. Using barcoded amplicon pyrosequencing at 13 sites (10 trees/site; 10 leaves/tree), we found very high levels of diversity within sites (a mean of 551 +/- 134 taxonomic units per site). However, among-site diversity contributed even more than did within-site diversity to the overall richness of more than 4,200 taxonomic units observed in M. polymorpha, and this among-site variation in endophyte community composition correlated strongly with temperature and rainfall. These results are consistent with suggestions that foliar endophytic fungi are hyperdiverse. They further suggest that microbial diversity may be even greater than has been assumed and that broad-scale environmental controls such as temperature and rainfall can structure eukaryotic microbial diversity. Appropriately constrained study systems across strong environmental gradients present a useful means to understand the environmental factors that structure the diversity of microbial communities.	2012	109	10.1073/pnas.1209872109	MAYBE	Dave	
Valentin-Vargas A; Toro-Labrador G; Massol-Deya AA	Bacterial Community Dynamics in Full-Scale Activated Sludge Bioreactors: Operational and Ecological Factors Driving Community Assembly and Performance	PLOS ONE	The assembling of bacterial communities in conventional activated sludge (CAS) bioreactors was thought, until recently, to be chaotic and mostly unpredictable. Studies done over the last decade have shown that specific, and often, predictable random and non-random factors could be responsible for that process. These studies have also motivated a structure-function paradigm that is yet to be resolved. Thus, elucidating the factors that affect community assembly in the bioreactors is necessary for predicting fluctuations in community structure and function. For this study activated sludge samples were collected during a one-year period from two geographically distant CAS bioreactors of different size. Combining community fingerprinting analysis and operational parameters data with a robust statistical analysis, we aimed to identify relevant links between system performance and bacterial community diversity and dynamics. In addition to revealing a significant beta-diversity between the bioreactors communities, results showed that the largest bioreactor had a less dynamic but more efficient and diverse bacterial community throughout the study. The statistical analysis also suggests that deterministic factors, as opposed to stochastic factors, may have a bigger impact on the community structure in the largest bioreactor. Furthermore, the community seems to rely mainly on mechanisms of resistance and functional redundancy to maintain functional stability. We suggest that the ecological theories behind the Island Biogeography model and the species-area relationship were appropriate to predict the assembly of bacterial communities in these CAS bioreactors. These results are of great importance for engineers and ecologists as they reveal critical aspects of CAS systems that could be applied towards improving bioreactor design and operation.	2012	7	10.1371/journal.pone.0042524	MAYBE	Dave	
Lennon JT; Aanderud ZT; Lehmkuhl BK; Schoolmaster DR	Mapping the niche space of soil microorganisms using taxonomy and traits	ECOLOGY	The biodiversity of microbial communities has important implications for the stability and functioning of ecosystem processes. Yet, very little is known about the environmental factors that define the microbial niche and how this influences the composition and activity of microbial communities. In this study, we derived niche parameters from physiological response curves that quantified microbial respiration for a diverse collection of soil bacteria and fungi along a soil moisture gradient. On average, soil microorganisms had relatively dry optima (0.3 MPa) and were capable of respiring under low water potentials (-2.0 MPa). Within their limits of activity, microorganisms exhibited a wide range of responses, suggesting that some taxa may be able to coexist by partitioning the moisture niche axis. For example, we identified dry-adapted generalists that tolerated a broad range of water potentials, along with wet-adapted specialists with metabolism restricted to less-negative water potentials. These contrasting ecological strategies had a phylogenetic signal at a coarse taxonomic level (phylum), suggesting that the moisture niche of soil microorganisms is highly conserved. In addition, variation in microbial responses along the moisture gradient was linked to the distribution of several functional traits. In particular, strains that were capable of producing biofilms had drier moisture optima and wider niche breadths. However, biofilm production appeared to come at a cost that was reflected in a prolonged lag time prior to exponential growth, suggesting that there is a trade-off associated with traits that allow microorganisms to contend with moisture stress. Together, we have identified functional groups of microorganisms that will help predict the structure and functioning of microbial communities under contrasting soil moisture regimes.	2012	93		MAYBE	Dave	
Peay KG; Schubert MG; Nguyen NH; Bruns TD	Measuring ectomycorrhizal fungal dispersal: macroecological patterns driven by microscopic propagules	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	Dispersal plays a prominent role in most conceptual models of community assembly. However, direct measurement of dispersal across a whole community is difficult at ecologically relevant spatial scales. For cryptic organisms, such as fungi and bacteria, the scale and importance of dispersal limitation has become a major point of debate. We use an experimental island biogeographic approach to measure the effects of dispersal limitation on the ecological dynamics of an important group of plant symbionts, ectomycorrhizal fungi. We manipulated the isolation of uncolonized host seedlings across a natural landscape and used a range of molecular techniques to measure the dispersal rates of ectomycorrhizal propagules and host colonization. Some species were prolific dispersers, producing annual spore loads on the order of trillions of spores per km2. However, fungal propagules reaching host seedlings decreased rapidly with increasing distance from potential spore sources, causing a concomitant reduction in ectomycorrhizal species richness, host colonization and host biomass. There were also strong differences in dispersal ability across species, which correlated well with the predictable composition of ectomycorrhizal communities associated with establishing pine forest. The use of molecular tools to measure whole community dispersal provides a direct confirmation for a key mechanism underlying island biogeography theory and has the potential to make microbial systems a model for understanding the role of dispersal in ecological theory.	2012	21	10.1111/j.1365-294X.2012.05666.x	MAYBE	Dave	
Kembel SW; Jones E; Kline J; Northcutt D; Stenson J; Womack AM; Bohannan BJM; Brown GZ; Green JL	Architectural design influences the diversity and structure of the built environment microbiome	ISME JOURNAL	Buildings are complex ecosystems that house trillions of microorganisms interacting with each other, with humans and with their environment. Understanding the ecological and evolutionary processes that determine the diversity and composition of the built environment microbiome-the community of microorganisms that live indoors-is important for understanding the relationship between building design, biodiversity and human health. In this study, we used high-throughput sequencing of the bacterial 16S rRNA gene to quantify relationships between building attributes and airborne bacterial communities at a health-care facility. We quantified airborne bacterial community structure and environmental conditions in patient rooms exposed to mechanical or window ventilation and in outdoor air. The phylogenetic diversity of airborne bacterial communities was lower indoors than outdoors, and mechanically ventilated rooms contained less diverse microbial communities than did window-ventilated rooms. Bacterial communities in indoor environments contained many taxa that are absent or rare outdoors, including taxa closely related to potential human pathogens. Building attributes, specifically the source of ventilation air, airflow rates, relative humidity and temperature, were correlated with the diversity and composition of indoor bacterial communities. The relative abundance of bacteria closely related to human pathogens was higher indoors than outdoors, and higher in rooms with lower airflow rates and lower relative humidity. The observed relationship between building design and airborne bacterial diversity suggests that we can manage indoor environments, altering through building design and operation the community of microbial species that potentially colonize the human microbiome during our time indoors. The ISME Journal (2012) 6, 1469-1479; doi: 10.1038/ismej.2011.211; published online 26 January 2012	2012	6	10.1038/ismej.2011.211	MAYBE	Dave	
Ragon M; Fontaine MC; Moreira D; Lopez-Garcia P	Different biogeographic patterns of prokaryotes and microbial eukaryotes in epilithic biofilms	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	Microbial biogeography studies expend much effort in determining whether environmental selection or stochastic processes related to dispersal are more important in shaping community composition. While both types of factors are possibly influential, it is tacitly assumed that protists, or microbial eukaryotes in general, behave biogeographically as prokaryotes because of their small physical size. However, direct evidence for this in exactly the same environment and at the same phylogenetic depth is lacking. In this study, we compared the structure of both prokaryotic and eukaryotic components of microbial communities forming biofilms on mineral substrates in different geographic locations at the level of small-subunit (SSU) rRNA-based operational taxonomic units (OTUs). These microbial communities are subjected to strong environmental selection and contain significant proportions of extremophilic microorganisms adapted to desiccation and UV radiation. We find that the nature of the substrate as well as climatic variables and geography influences microbial community structure. However, constrained correspondence analyses and distancedecay curves showed that, whereas the substrate type was the most significant factor structuring bacterial communities, geographic location was the most influential factor for microbial eukaryote communities. Biological explanations implying a higher dispersal success for bacteria combined with more mobile lifestyles for predatory protists may underlie these different prokaryote versus microbial eukaryote biogeographic patterns.	2012	21	10.1111/j.1365-294X.2012.05659.x	YES	Dave	
Tripathi BM; Kim M; Singh D; Lee-Cruz L; Lai-Hoe A; Ainuddin AN; Go R; Rahim RA; Husni MHA; Chun J; Adams JM	Tropical Soil Bacterial Communities in Malaysia: pH Dominates in the Equatorial Tropics Too	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	The dominant factors controlling soil bacterial community variation within the tropics are poorly known. We sampled soils across a range of land use types-primary (unlogged) and logged forests and crop and pasture lands in Malaysia. PCR-amplified soil DNA for the bacterial 16S rRNA gene targeting the V1-V3 region was pyrosequenced using the 454 Roche machine. We found that land use in itself has a weak but significant effect on the bacterial community composition. However, bacterial community composition and diversity was strongly correlated with soil properties, especially soil pH, total carbon, and C/N ratio. Soil pH was the best predictor of bacterial community composition and diversity across the various land use types, with the highest diversity close to neutral pH values. In addition, variation in phylogenetic structure of dominant lineages (Alphaproteobacteria, Beta/Gammaproteobacteria, Acidobacteria, and Actinobacteria) is also significantly correlated with soil pH. Together, these results confirm the importance of soil pH in structuring soil bacterial communities in Southeast Asia. Our results also suggest that unlike the general diversity pattern found for larger organisms, primary tropical forest is no richer in operational taxonomic units of soil bacteria than logged forest, and agricultural land (crop and pasture) is actually richer than primary forest, partly due to selection of more fertile soils that have higher pH for agriculture and the effects of soil liming raising pH.	2012	64	10.1007/s00248-012-0028-8	MAYBE	Dave	
Gayevskiy V; Goddard MR	Geographic delineations of yeast communities and populations associated with vines and wines in New Zealand	ISME JOURNAL	Yeasts are a diverse seemingly ubiquitous group of eukaryotic microbes, and many are naturally associated with fruits. Humans have harnessed yeasts since the dawn of civilisation to make wine, and thus it is surprising that we know little of the distribution of yeast communities naturally associated with fruits. Previous reports of yeast community diversity have been descriptive only. Here we present, we believe, the first robust test for the geographic delineation of yeast communities. Humans have relatively recently employed Saccharomyces cerevisiae as a model research organism, and have long harnessed its ancient adaption to ferment even in the presence of oxygen. However, as far as we are aware, there has not been a rigorous test for the presence of regional differences in natural S. cerevisiae populations before. We combined these community-and population-level questions and surveyed replicate vineyards and corresponding spontaneous ferments from different regions on New Zealands (NZs) North Island and analysed the resulting data with community ecology and population genetic tests. We show that there are distinct regional delineations of yeast communities, but the picture for S. cerevisiae is more complex: there is evidence for region-specific sub-populations but there are also reasonable levels of gene flow among these regions in NZ. We believe this is the first demonstration of regional delineations of yeast populations and communities worldwide. The ISME Journal (2012) 6, 1281-1290; doi:10.1038/ismej.2011.195; published online 22 December 2011	2012	6	10.1038/ismej.2011.195	MAYBE	Dave	
Higgins LM; Kennedy PG	Symbiotic Frankia bacteria in Alnus forests in Mexico and the United States of America: is geographic location a good predictor of assemblage structure?	BOTANY-BOTANIQUE	While the biogeography of Alnus species is well characterized, that of their microbial symbionts remains less well understood. Little is known, for example, about how the genotypic richness of Alnus-associated Frankia bacteria varies at the continental scale, and the richness of Alnus-associated Frankia at tropical latitudes has yet to be explored. In this study, we conducted sequence-based analyses of the nifH gene comparing Frankia found in root nodules of two Alnus species in central Mexico with those associated with two Alnus species in the northwestern United States of America (USA). Similar to Frankia assemblages in northwestern USA and other geographic locations, genotypic richness within the Mexican samples was low, with five genotypes total using a >= 97% nifH sequence similarity cutoff. The vast majority of Mexican sequences belonged to genotypes also very common in northwestern USA Alnus forests, although two novel Mexican genotypes were identified. Phylogenetic analyses confirmed that all of the genotypes present in Mexico belong to larger clades of Alnus-associated Frankia. Genotype-and distance-based community analyses indicated that neither geographic location nor the phylogenetic relationships among hosts are strong predictors of Frankia assemblage structure. Our results suggest that factors other than classic biogeography are more influential in determining the continental-scale distribution and diversity of Alnus-associated Frankia.	2012	90	10.1139/B2012-006	MAYBE	Dave	
Cao P; Zhang LM; Shen JP; Zheng YM; Di HJ; He JZ	Distribution and diversity of archaeal communities in selected Chinese soils	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	To understand the distribution and diversity of archaea in Chinese soils, the archaeal communities in a series of topsoils and soil profiles were investigated using quantitative PCR, T-RFLP combining sequencing methods. Archaeal 16S rRNA gene copy numbers, ranging from 4.96 x 106 to 1.30 x 108 copies g-1 dry soil, were positively correlated with soil pH, organic carbon and total nitrogen in the topsoils. In the soil profiles, archaeal abundance was positively correlated with soil pH but negatively with depth profile. The relative abundance of archaea in the prokaryotes (sum of bacteria and archaea) ranged from 0.20% to 9.26% and tended to increase along the depth profile. T-RFLP and phylogenetic analyses revealed that the structure of archaeal communities in cinnamon soils, brown soils, and fluvo-aquic soils was similar and dominated by Crenarchaeota group 1.1b and 1.1a. These were different from those in red soils, which were dominated by Crenarchaeota group 1.3 and 1.1c. Canonical correspondence analysis indicated that the archaeal community was primarily influenced by soil pH.	2012	80	10.1111/j.1574-6941.2011.01280.x	MAYBE	Dave	
Schottner S; Wild C; Hoffmann F; Boetius A; Ramette A	Spatial Scales of Bacterial Diversity in Cold-Water Coral Reef Ecosystems	PLOS ONE	Background: Cold-water coral reef ecosystems are recognized as biodiversity hotspots in the deep sea, but insights into their associated bacterial communities are still limited. Deciphering principle patterns of bacterial community variation over multiple spatial scales may however prove critical for a better understanding of factors contributing to cold-water coral reef stability and functioning. Methodology/Principal Findings: Bacterial community structure, as determined by Automated Ribosomal Intergenic Spacer Analysis (ARISA), was investigated with respect to (i) microbial habitat type and (ii) coral species and color, as well as the three spatial components (iii) geomorphologic reef zoning, (iv) reef boundary, and (v) reef location. Communities revealed fundamental differences between coral-generated (branch surface, mucus) and ambient microbial habitats (seawater, sediments). This habitat specificity appeared pivotal for determining bacterial community shifts over all other study levels investigated. Coral-derived surfaces showed species-specific patterns, differing significantly between Lophelia pertusa and Madrepora oculata, but not between L. pertusa color types. Within the reef center, no community distinction corresponded to geomorphologic reef zoning for both coral-generated and ambient microbial habitats. Beyond the reef center, however, bacterial communities varied considerably from local to regional scales, with marked shifts toward the reef periphery as well as between different in-and offshore reef sites, suggesting significant biogeographic imprinting but weak microbe-host specificity. Conclusions/Significance: This study presents the first multi-scale survey of bacterial diversity in cold-water coral reefs, spanning a total of five observational levels including three spatial scales. It demonstrates that bacterial communities in cold-water coral reefs are structured by multiple factors acting at different spatial scales, which has fundamental implications for the monitoring of microbial diversity and function in those ecosystems.	2012	7	10.1371/journal.pone.0032093	MAYBE	Dave	
Eisenlord SD; Zak DR; Upchurch RA	Dispersal limitation and the assembly of soil Actinobacteria communities in a long-term chronosequence	ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION	It is uncertain whether the same ecological forces that structure plant and animal communities also shape microbial communities, especially those residing in soil. We sought to uncover the relative importance of present-day environmental characteristics, climatic variation, and historical contingencies in shaping soil actinobacterial communities in a long-term chronosequence. Actinobacteria communities were characterized in surface soil samples from four replicate forest stands with nearly identical edaphic and ecological properties, which range from 9500 to 14,000 years following glacial retreat in Michigan. Terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (TRFLP) profiles and clone libraries of the actinobacterial 16S rRNA gene were constructed in each site for phenetic and phylogenetic analysis to determine whether dispersal limitation occurred following glacial retreat, or if community composition was determined by environmental heterogeneity. At every level of examination, actinobacterial community composition most closely correlated with distance, a surrogate for time, than with biogeochemical, plant community, or climatic characteristics. Despite correlation with leaf litter C:N and annual temperature, the significant and consistent relationship of biological communities with time since glacial retreat provides evidence that dispersal limitation is an ecological force structuring actinobacterial communities in soil over long periods of time.	2012	2	10.1002/ece3.210	YES	Dave	
Mi L; Wang GH; Jin J; Sul YY; Liu JD; Liu XB	Comparison of microbial community structures in four Black soils along a climatic gradient in northeast China	CANADIAN JOURNAL OF SOIL SCIENCE	Mi, L., Wang, G., Jin, J., Sui, Y., Liu, J. and Liu, X. 2012. Comparison of microbial community structures in four Black soils along a climatic gradient in northeast China. Can. J. Soil Sci. 92: 543-549. Surveys of microorganisms across climatic gradients provide important information about their biodiversity and spatial distribution, which is linked to fundamental ecological functions. The present study investigated the bacterial communities, including total and culturable communities, and fungal communities in Black soils collected from Lishu (lat. 43 degrees 20N, long. 124 degrees 28E), Dehui (lat. 44 degrees 12N, long. 125 degrees 33E), Hailun (lat. 47 degrees 26N, long. 126 degrees 38E) and Beian (lat. 48 degrees 17N, long. 127 degrees 15E) in northeast China. Bacterial and fungal communities were evaluated by polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) banding patterns of partial 16S rDNA and fungal rDNA internal transcribed spacer regions (ITS), respectively. Bacterial and fungal diversity, based on the number of DGGE bands, were similar among the locations, but cluster analysis of banding patterns showed distinct microbial communities along the climatic gradient. A closer relationship was found among soil bacterial (total and culturable) and fungal communities in neighboring locations than those at greater distance, which suggested that the spatial distribution of microbial community existed in the Black Soil Zone. Comparison of DGGE profiles among the four locations showed that the changes of fungal community and culturable bacterial community were greater than that of bacterial community, suggesting that fungal community and culturable bacterial community are more suitable to study microbial biogeographic distribution in Black soils.	2012	92	10.4141/CJSS2010-006	YES	Dave	
Bates ST; Nash TH; Garcia-Pichel F	Patterns of diversity for fungal assemblages of biological soil crusts from the southwestern United States	MYCOLOGIA	Molecular methodologies were used to investigate fungal assemblages of biological soil crusts (BSCs) from arid lands in the southwestern United States. Fungal diversity of BSCs was assessed in a broad survey that included the Chihuahuan and Sonoran deserts as well as the Colorado Plateau. At selected sites samples were collected along kilometer-scale transects, and fungal community diversity and composition were assessed based on community rRNA gene fingerprinting using PCR-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE). Individual phylotypes were characterized through band sequencing. The results indicate that a considerable diversity of fungi is present within crusted soils, with higher diversity being recovered from more successionally mature BSCs. The overwhelming majority of crust fungi belong to the Ascomycota, with the Pleosporales being widespread and frequently dominant. Beta diversity patterns of phylotwes putatively representing dominant members of BSC fungal communities suggest that these assemblages are specific to their respective geographic regions of origin.	2012	104	10.3852/11-232	MAYBE	Dave	
Yan PY; Hou SG; Chen T; Ma XJ; Zhang SH	Culturable bacteria isolated from snow cores along the 1300 km traverse from Zhongshan Station to Dome A, East Antarctica	EXTREMOPHILES	The abundance and community composition of culturable bacteria in four snow cores along the 1300 km traverse from Zhongshan Station to Dome A, East Antarctica, were investigated through the combination of liquid and solid media and small subunit 16S rRNA sequences. Under aerobic cultivation conditions, the average concentrations of bacterial colonies from each snow core varied from 0.008 to 0.32 CFU mL(-1). A total of 37 and 15 isolates with different morphologic characteristics were recovered from solid and liquid media PYGV, respectively. The phylogenetic analysis of 14 representatives with different ARDRA patterns from RFLP showed that all the isolates were affiliated with five phylogenetic groups: Firmicutes, Actinobacteria, Alphaproteobacteria, Gammaproteobacteria and Bacteroidetes. Actinobacteria represented the largest cluster with 43% of strains, and these strains exhibited unique phenotypic properties. The community compositions of culturable bacteria in the four snow cores were distinctly different from each other and the concentrations and community sizes of culturable bacteria along the traverse decreased with increases of latitude, altitude and distance from coast, which likely reflected the different bacterial sources and biogeographies under the different regional climate conditions in the snow cover of East Antarctica.	2012	16	10.1007/s00792-012-0434-3	MAYBE	Dave	
Fortunato CS; Herfort L; Zuber P; Baptista AM; Crump BC	Spatial variability overwhelms seasonal patterns in bacterioplankton communities across a river to ocean gradient	ISME JOURNAL	Few studies of microbial biogeography address variability across both multiple habitats and multiple seasons. Here we examine the spatial and temporal variability of bacterioplankton community composition of the Columbia River coastal margin using 16S amplicon pyrosequencing of 300 water samples collected in 2007 and 2008. Communities separated into seven groups (ANOSIM, P<0.001): river, estuary, plume, epipelagic, mesopelagic, shelf bottom (depth <350 m) and slope bottom (depth>850 m). The ordination of these samples was correlated with salinity (rho=-0.83) and depth (rho=-0.62). Temporal patterns were obscured by spatial variability among the coastal environments, and could only be detected within individual groups. Thus, structuring environmental factors (for example, salinity, depth) dominate over seasonal changes in determining community composition. Seasonal variability was detected across an annual cycle in the river, estuary and plume where communities separated into two groups, early year (April-July) and late year (August-Nov), demonstrating annual reassembly of communities over time. Determining both the spatial and temporal variability of bacterioplankton communities provides a framework for modeling these communities across environmental gradients from river to deep ocean. The ISME Journal (2012) 6, 554-563; doi: 10.1038/ismej.2011.135; published online 20 October 2011	2012	6	10.1038/ismej.2011.135	YES	Dave	
Schmitt S; Tsai P; Bell J; Fromont J; Ilan M; Lindquist N; Perez T; Rodrigo A; Schupp PJ; Vacelet J; Webster N; Hentschel U; Taylor MW	Assessing the complex sponge microbiota: core, variable and species-specific bacterial communities in marine sponges	ISME JOURNAL	Marine sponges are well known for their associations with highly diverse, yet very specific and often highly similar microbiota. The aim of this study was to identify potential bacterial sub-populations in relation to sponge phylogeny and sampling sites and to define the core bacterial community. 16S ribosomal RNA gene amplicon pyrosequencing was applied to 32 sponge species from eight locations around the worlds oceans, thereby generating 2567 operational taxonomic units (OTUs at the 97% sequence similarity level) in total and up to 364 different OTUs per sponge species. The taxonomic richness detected in this study comprised 25 bacterial phyla with Proteobacteria, Chloroflexi and Poribacteria being most diverse in sponges. Among these phyla were nine candidate phyla, six of them found for the first time in sponges. Similarity comparison of bacterial communities revealed no correlation with host phylogeny but a tropical sub-population in that tropical sponges have more similar bacterial communities to each other than to subtropical sponges. A minimal core bacterial community consisting of very few OTUs (97%, 95% and 90%) was found. These microbes have a global distribution and are probably acquired via environmental transmission. In contrast, a large species-specific bacterial community was detected, which is represented by OTUs present in only a single sponge species. The species-specific bacterial community is probably mainly vertically transmitted. It is proposed that different sponges contain different bacterial species, however, these bacteria are still closely related to each other explaining the observed similarity of bacterial communities in sponges in this and previous studies. This global analysis represents the most comprehensive study of bacterial symbionts in sponges to date and provides novel insights into the complex structure of these unique associations. The ISME Journal (2012) 6, 564-576; doi: 10.1038/ismej.2011.116; published online 13 October 2011	2012	6	10.1038/ismej.2011.116	YES	Dave	
Bik HM; Sung W; De Ley P; Baldwin JG; Sharma J; Rocha-Olivares A; Thomas WK	Metagenetic community analysis of microbial eukaryotes illuminates biogeographic patterns in deep-sea and shallow water sediments	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	Microbial eukaryotes (nematodes, protists, fungi, etc., loosely referred to as meiofauna) are ubiquitous in marine sediments and probably play pivotal roles in maintaining ecosystem function. Although the deep-sea benthos represents one of the worlds largest habitats, we lack a firm understanding of the biodiversity and community interactions amongst meiobenthic organisms in this ecosystem. Within this vast environment, key questions concerning the historical genetic structure of species remain a mystery, yet have profound implications for our understanding of global biodiversity and how we perceive and mitigate the impact of environmental change and anthropogenic disturbance. Using a metagenetic approach, we present an assessment of microbial eukaryote communities across depth (shallow water to abyssal) and ocean basins (deep-sea Pacific and Atlantic). Within the 12 sites examined, our results suggest that some taxa can maintain eurybathic ranges and cosmopolitan deep-sea distributions, but the majority of species appear to be regionally restricted. For Operationally Clustered Taxonomic Units (OCTUs) reporting wide distributions, there appears to be a taxonomic bias towards a small subset of taxa in most phyla; such bias may be driven by specific life history traits amongst these organisms. In addition, low genetic divergence between geographically disparate deep-sea sites suggests either a shorter coalescence time between deep-sea regions or slower rates of evolution across this vast oceanic ecosystem. While high-throughput studies allow for broad assessment of genetic patterns across microbial eukaryote communities, intragenomic variation in rRNA gene copies and the patchy coverage of reference databases currently present substantial challenges for robust taxonomic interpretations of eukaryotic data sets.	2012	21	10.1111/j.1365-294X.2011.05297.x	MAYBE	Dave	
Astorga A; Oksanen J; Luoto M; Soininen J; Virtanen R; Muotka T	Distance decay of similarity in freshwater communities: do macro- and microorganisms follow the same rules?	GLOBAL ECOLOGY AND BIOGEOGRAPHY	Aim An intensively debated issue in macroecology is whether unicellular organisms show biogeographic patterns different from those of macroorganisms. One aspect of this debate addresses beta diversity, that is, do microbial organisms exhibit distance-decay patterns similar to those of macroorganisms? And if so, is the decay of community similarity caused by spatially limited dispersal or by niche-related factors? We studied the community similarity of stream diatoms, macroinvertebrates and bryophytes across the same set of sites in relation to environmental and geographic distance. Location A geographical gradient of c. 1100 km in Finland. Methods We first identified the subset of environmental variables that produced the highest correlation with community similarities for each taxonomic group. Based on these variables, we used partial Mantel tests to separate the independent influences of environmental and geographical distance for distance decay of community similarity, separately for diatoms, bryophytes and macroinvertebrates. Finally, macroinvertebrates were divided into three groups based on their different dispersal categories and a partial Mantel test was used to assess whether each of these groups were differently affected by environmental versus geographic distance, i.e. is dispersal a key factor in tests of niche versus neutral models. Results The level of environmental control was by far the strongest for diatoms; however, all groups were controlled more by environmental factors than by limited dispersal. Macroinvertebrate species with low dispersal ability were significantly related to geographic distance, while more effective dispersers showed no relationship to geography but were instead strongly related to environmental distance. Main conclusions Our results suggest that patterns between macro- and microorganisms are not fundamentally different, but the level of environmental control varies according to dispersal ability. The relative importance of niche versus dispersal processes is not simply a function of organism size but other traits ( e. g. life-history type, dispersal capacity) may obscure this relationship.	2012	21	10.1111/j.1466-8238.2011.00681.x	YES	Dave	
Pester M; Rattei T; Flechl S; Grongroft A; Richter A; Overmann J; Reinhold-Hurek B; Loy A; Wagner M	amoA-based consensus phylogeny of ammonia-oxidizing archaea and deep sequencing of amoA genes from soils of four different geographic regions	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Ammonia-oxidizing archaea (AOA) play an important role in nitrification and many studies exploit their amoA genes as marker for their diversity and abundance. We present an archaeal amoA consensus phylogeny based on all publicly available sequences (status June 2010) and provide evidence for the diversification of AOA into four previously recognized clusters and one newly identified major cluster. These clusters, for which we suggest a new nomenclature, harboured 83 AOA species-level OTU (using an inferred species threshold of 85% amoA identity). 454 pyrosequencing of amoA amplicons from 16 soils sampled in Austria, Costa Rica, Greenland and Namibia revealed that only 2% of retrieved sequences had no database representative on the species-level and represented 30-37 additional species-level OTUs. With the exception of an acidic soil from which mostly amoA amplicons of the Nitrosotalea cluster were retrieved, all soils were dominated by amoA amplicons from the Nitrososphaera cluster (also called group I.1b), indicating that the previously reported AOA from the Nitrosopumilus cluster (also called group I.1a) are absent or represent minor populations in soils. AOA richness estimates on the species level ranged from 8-83 co-existing AOAs per soil. Presence/absence of amoA OTUs (97% identity level) correlated with geographic location, indicating that besides contemporary environmental conditions also dispersal limitation across different continents and/or historical environmental conditions might influence AOA biogeography in soils.	2012	14	10.1111/j.1462-2920.2011.02666.x	MAYBE	Dave	
Qvit-Raz N; Finkel OM; Al-Deeb TM; Malkawi HI; Hindiyeh MY; Jurkevitch E; Belkin S	Biogeographical diversity of leaf-associated microbial communities from salt-secreting Tamarix trees of the Dead Sea region	RESEARCH IN MICROBIOLOGY	The leaves of Tamarix, a salt-secreting desert tree, form an extreme niche that harbors a unique microbial community. In view of the global distribution of this tree, its island-like phyllosphere is highly suitable for studying microbial diversity along geographical gradients. Here we present an analysis of microbial community diversity using leaf surface samples collected at six different sites, on both sides of the Dead Sea, over a period of one year. Biodiversity analysis of denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) patterns of the bacterial 16S rRNA gene revealed a significant degree of bacterial community similarity within trees sampled at the same site, much higher than the similarity between trees from different geographical locations. Statistical analysis indicated that the degree of similarity was negatively correlated with the distance between sampling sites, and that a weak correlation existed between diversity and leaf pH. (C) 2011 Institut Pasteur. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.	2012	163	10.1016/j.resmic.2011.11.006	YES	Dave	
McCliment EA; Nelson CE; Carlson CA; Alldredge AL; Witting J; Amaral-Zettler LA	An all-taxon microbial inventory of the Moorea coral reef ecosystem	ISME JOURNAL	The Moorea Coral Reef Long Term Ecological Research (LTER) Site (17.50 degrees S, 149.83 degrees W) comprises the fringe of coral reefs and lagoons surrounding the volcanic island of Moorea in the Society Islands of French Polynesia. As part of our Microbial Inventory Research Across Diverse Aquatic LTERS biodiversity inventory project, we characterized microbial community composition across all three domains of life using amplicon pyrosequencing of the V6 (bacterial and archaeal) and V9 (eukaryotic) hypervariable regions of small-subunit ribosomal RNA genes. Our survey spanned eight locations along a 130-km transect from the reef lagoon to the open ocean to examine changes in communities along inshore to offshore gradients. Our results illustrate consistent community differentiation between inshore and offshore ecosystems across all three domains, with greater richness in all domains in the reef-associated habitats. Bacterial communities were more homogenous among open ocean sites spanning >100km than among inshore sites separated by <1 km, whereas eukaryotic communities varied more offshore than inshore, and archaea showed more equal levels of dissimilarity among subhabitats. We identified signature communities representative of specific geographic and geochemical milieu, and characterized co-occurrence patterns of specific microbial taxa within the inshore ecosystem including several bacterial groups that persist in geographical niches across time. Bacterial and archaeal communities were dominated by few abundant taxa but spatial patterning was consistent through time and space in both rare and abundant communities. This is the first in-depth inventory analysis of biogeographic variation of all three microbial domains within a coral reef ecosystem. The ISME Journal (2012) 6, 309-319; doi: 10.1038/ismej.2011.108; published online 8 September 2011	2012	6	10.1038/ismej.2011.108	YES	Dave	
Lin W; Wang YZ; Li B; Pan YX	A biogeographic distribution of magnetotactic bacteria influenced by salinity	ISME JOURNAL	Magnetotactic bacteria (MTB), which synthesize intracellular ferromagnetic magnetite and/or greigite magnetosomes, have significant roles in global iron cycling in aquatic systems, as well as sedimentary magnetism. The occurrence of MTB has been reported in aquatic environments from freshwater to marine ecosystems; however, the distribution of MTB across heterogeneous habitats remains unclear. Here we examined the MTB communities from diverse habitats across northern and southern China, using comprehensive transmission electron microscopy and comparison of 16S rRNA gene analyses. A total of 334 16S rRNA gene sequences were analyzed, representing the most comprehensive analysis on the diversity and distribution of MTB to date. The majority (95%) of sequences belong to the Alphaproteobacteria, whereas a population of giant magnetotactic rod is affiliated with the Nitrospirae phylum. By a statistical comparison of these sequence data and publicly available MTB sequences, we infer for the first time that the composition of MTB communities represents a biogeographic distribution across globally heterogeneous environments, which is influenced by salinity. The ISME Journal (2012) 6, 475-479; doi: 10.1038/ismej.2011.112; published online 25 August 2011	2012	6	10.1038/ismej.2011.112	MAYBE	Dave	
Monroy F; van der Putten WH; Yergeau E; Mortimer SR; Duyts H; Bezemer TM	Community patterns of soil bacteria and nematodes in relation to geographic distance	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	Ecosystems consist of aboveground and belowground subsystems and the structure of their communities is known to change with distance. However, most of this knowledge originates from visible, aboveground components, whereas relatively little is known about how soil community structure varies with distance and if this variability depends on the group of organisms considered. In the present study, we analyzed 30 grasslands from three neighboring chalk hill ridges in southern UK to determine the effect of geographic distance (1-198 km) on the similarity of bacterial communities and of nematode communities in the soil. We found that for both groups, community similarity decayed with distance and that this spatial pattern was not related to changes either in plant community composition or soil chemistry. Site history may have contributed to the observed pattern in the case of nematodes, since the distance effect depended on the presence of different nematode taxa at one of the hill ridges. On the other hand, site-related differences in bacterial community composition alone could not explain the spatial turnover, suggesting that other factors, such as biotic gradients and local dispersal processes that we did not include in our analysis, may be involved in the observed pattern. We conclude that, independently of the variety of causal factors that may be involved, the decay in similarity with geographic distance is a characteristic feature of both communities of soil bacteria and nematodes. (C) 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2012	45	10.1016/j.soilbio.2011.10.006	YES	Dave	
Ostman O; Drakare S; Kritzberg ES; Langenheder S; Logue JB; Lindstrom ES	Importance of space and the local environment for linking local and regional abundances of microbes	AQUATIC MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	It is frequently observed that the local relative abundances of aquatic microbial taxa are correlated with their average relative abundance at the regional scale, which results in the composition of different communities being more similar than expected by chance or invariant. The degree to which communities within a region match the regional average community is variable and likely depends on several different mechanisms that control the process of microbial community assembly. Here, we show that environmental variables were associated with the community specific degree of regional invariance in 9 of 10 datasets of microbial communities in aquatic systems, being the main set of variables explaining differences in regional invariance in 5 of them. This indicates that variation in local environmental conditions across a region reduces the degree of regional invariance amongst communities. Spatial distances between communities were not related to the degrees of regional invariance, but in 7 of the datasets, regional invariance differed among different parts of the regions, particularly for phytoplankton communities. This suggests an influence of spatial or historical processes on the community specific degree of regional invariance. We conclude that both local environmental conditions and spatial/historical processes cause between-site differences in the degree of invariance between local and regional abundances in aquatic microbial metacommunities. We argue that studies of regional invariance can be an important complement to other statistical methods due to its propensity to detect variation in stochastic processes along gradients.	2012	67	10.3354/ame01581	YES	Dave	
Friedline CJ; Franklin RB; McCallister SL; Rivera MC	Bacterial assemblages of the eastern Atlantic Ocean reveal both vertical and latitudinal biogeographic signatures	BIOGEOSCIENCES	Microbial communities are recognized as major drivers of the biogeochemical processes in the oceans. However, the genetic diversity and composition of those communities is poorly understood. The aim of this study is to investigate the composition of bacterial assemblages in three different water layer habitats: surface (2-20 m), deep chlorophyll maximum (DCM; 28-90 m), and deep (100-4600 m) at nine stations along the eastern Atlantic Ocean from 42.8 degrees N to 23.7 degrees S. The sampling of three discrete, predefined habitat types from different depths, Longhurstian provinces, and geographical locations allowed us to investigate whether marine bacterial assemblages show spatial variation and to determine if the observed spatial variation is influenced by current environmental conditions, historical/ geographical contingencies, or both. The PCR amplicons of the V6 region of the 16S rRNA from 16 microbial assemblages were pyrosequenced, generating a total of 352 029 sequences; after quality filtering and processing, 257 260 sequences were clustered into 2871 normalized operational taxonomic units (OTU) using a definition of 97% sequence identity. Community ecology statistical analyses demonstrate that the eastern Atlantic Ocean bacterial assemblages are vertically stratified and associated with water layers characterized by unique environmental signals (e. g., temperature, salinity, and nutrients). Genetic compositions of bacterial assemblages from the same water layer are more similar to each other than to assemblages from different water layers. The observed clustering of samples by water layer allows us to conclude that contemporary environments are influencing the observed biogeographic patterns. Moreover, the implementation of a novel Bayesian inference approach that allows a more efficient and explicit use of all the OTU abundance data shows a distance effect suggesting the influence of historical contingencies on the composition of bacterial assemblages. Surface bacterial communities displayed a general congruency with the ecological provinces as defined by Longhurst with modest exceptions usually associated with unique hydrographic and biogeochemical features. Collectively, our findings suggest that vertical (habitat) and latitudinal (distance) biogeographic signatures are present and that both environmental parameters and ecological provinces drive the composition of bacterial assemblages in the eastern Atlantic Ocean.	2012	9	10.5194/bg-9-2177-2012	YES	Dave	
Ngugi DK; Antunes A; Brune A; Stingl U	Biogeography of pelagic bacterioplankton across an antagonistic temperature-salinity gradient in the Red Sea	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	The Red Sea is a unique marine ecosystem with contrasting gradients of temperature and salinity along its north-to-south axis. It is an extremely oligotrophic environment that is characterized by perpetual year-round water column stratification, high annual solar irradiation, and negligible riverine and precipitation inputs. In this study, we investigated whether the contemporary environmental conditions shape community assemblages by pyrosequencing 16S rRNA genes of bacteria in surface water samples collected from the northeastern half of this water body. A combined total of 1855 operational taxonomic units (OTUs) were recovered from the small-cell and large-cell fractions. Here, a few major OTUs affiliated with Cyanobacteria and Proteobacteria accounted for similar to 93% of all sequences, whereas a tail of rare OTUs represented most of the diversity. OTUs allied to Surface 1a/b SAR11 clades and Prochlorococcus related to the high-light-adapted (HL2) ecotype were the most widespread and predominant sequence types. Interestingly, the frequency of taxa that are typically found in the upper mesopelagic zone was significantly elevated in the northern transects compared with those in the central, presumably as a direct effect of deep convective mixing in the Gulf of Aqaba and water exchange with the northern Red Sea. Although temperature was the best predictor of species richness across all major lineages, both spatial and environmental distances correlated strongly with phylogenetic distances. Our results suggest that the bacterial diversity of the Red Sea is as high as in other tropical seas and provide evidence for fundamental differences in the biogeography of pelagic communities between the northern and central regions.	2012	21	10.1111/j.1365-294X.2011.05378.x	YES	Dave	
Li L; Sinkko H; Montonen L; Wei GH; Lindstrom K; Rasanen LA	Biogeography of symbiotic and other endophytic bacteria isolated from medicinal Glycyrrhiza species in China	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	A total of 159 endophytic bacteria were isolated from surface-sterilized root nodules of wild perennial Glycyrrhiza legumes growing on 40 sites in central and northwestern China. Amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) genomic fingerprinting and sequencing of partial 16S rRNA genes revealed that the collection mainly consisted of Mesorhizobium, Rhizobium, Sinorhizobium, Agrobacterium and Paenibacillus species. Based on symbiotic properties with the legume hosts Glycyrrhiza uralensis and Glycyrrhiza glabra, we divided the nodulating species into true and sporadic symbionts. Five distinct Mesorhizobium groups represented true symbionts of the host plants, the majority of strains inducing N2-fixing nodules. Sporadic symbionts consisted of either species with infrequent occurrence (Rhizobium galegae, Rhizobium leguminosarum) or species with weak (Sinorhizobium meliloti, Rhizobium gallicum) or no N2 fixation ability (Rhizobium giardinii, Rhizobium cellulosilyticum, Phyllobacterium sp.). Multivariate analyses revealed that the host plant species and geographic location explained only a small part (14.4%) of the total variation in bacterial AFLP patterns, with the host plant explaining slightly more (9.9%) than geography (6.9%). However, strains isolated from G. glabra were clearly separated from those from G. uralensis, and strains obtained from central China were well separated from those originating from Xinjiang in the northwest, indicating both host preference and regional endemism.	2012	79	10.1111/j.1574-6941.2011.01198.x	MAYBE	Dave	
Larouche JR; Bowden WB; Giordano R; Flinn MB; Crump BC	Microbial biogeography of arctic streams: exploring influences of lithology and habitat	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism and 16S rRNA gene sequencing were used to explore the community composition of bacterial communities in biofilms on sediments (epipssamon) and rocks (epilithon) in stream reaches that drain watersheds with contrasting lithologies in the Noatak National Preserve, Alaska. Bacterial community composition varied primarily by stream habitat and secondarily by lithology. Positive correlations were detected between bacterial community structure and nutrients, base cations, and dissolved organic carbon. Our results showed significant differences at the stream habitat, between epipssamon and epilithon bacterial communities, which we expected. Our results also showed significant differences at the landscape scale that could be related to different lithologies and associated stream biogeochemistry. These results provide insight into the bacterial community composition of little known and pristine arctic stream ecosystems and illustrate how differences in the lithology, soils, and vegetation community of the terrestrial environment interact to influence stream bacterial taxonomic richness and composition.	2012	3	10.3389/fmicb.2012.00309	MAYBE	Dave	
Rossi P; Shani N; Kohler F; Imfeld G; Holliger C	Ecology and biogeography of bacterial communities associated with chloroethene-contaminated aquifers	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Massive usage, along with careless handling, storage, spills, and leakages made chloroethenes (CEs) one of the most abundant classes of groundwater contaminants. Anaerobic organohalide respiring bacteria (OHRB) can couple reductive dechlorination of CEs with energy conservation, a central microbial process in (enhanced) natural attenuation of CE-contaminated aquifers. Spatial variability of OHRB guild members present in contaminated sites has not yet been investigated in detail and it is not known whether the spatial localization of contaminated sites could impact differentially remediation capacities. The goal of this study was to investigate how spatially distant microbial communities responded to the presence of CEs. Bacterial communities associated with five geographically distant European CE-contaminated aquifers were analyzed with terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism. Numerical ecology tools were used to assess the separate and combined effects on the communities of their spatial localization, their local environmental conditions and their contaminant concentrations. Three spatial scales were used for the assessment of the structuration of the communities as a function of geographical distances, namely at the aquifer scale, at medium (50 km) and long (ca. 1000 km) distances between aquifers. As a result, bacterial communities were structured with an almost identical contribution by both the geographical position of the aquifer and local environmental variables, especially electron donors and acceptors. The impact of environmental factors decreased with distance between aquifers, with the concomitant increase in importance of a geographical factor. Contrastingly, CEs contributed at a low extent at the medium scale and became important only when all aquifers were considered together, at a large geographical scale, suggesting that distant communities were structured partially by a common niche specialization in organohalide respiration.	2012	3	10.3389/fmicb.2012.00260	MAYBE	Dave	
Wenner S; Lodders N; Kampfer P	Diversity and biogeography of selected phyllosphere bacteria with special emphasis on Methylobacterium spp.	SYSTEMATIC AND APPLIED MICROBIOLOGY	On the basis of cultivation-dependent (isolation on mineral salt medium supplemented with 0.5% methanol) and -independent (DGGE analysis) methods, we investigated the influence of the host plant species Trifolium repens and Cerastium holosteoides, three geographic locations and the land-use types meadow, mown pasture and pasture on the abundance and community composition of selected phyllosphere bacteria with emphasis on Methylobacterium species. Methylobacterium abundance was significantly higher on leaves of T. repens (mean value 2.0 x 10(7) CFU PPFM per g leaf) than on leaves of C. holosteoides (mean value 2.0 x 10(6) CFU per g leaf). Leaves from the sampling site Schorfheide-Chorin showed slightly lower Methylobacterium numbers than leaves of the other sampling sites. Land-use and sampling period had no consistent influence on Methylobacterium community size. Methylobacterium community composition was very similar over both sampling periods, all three sampling sites, all land-use types and both plant species. Moreover, no relationship between geographic and genetic distance was observed. Community composition of selected Proteobacteria was influenced by plant species, geographic location and land-use. Often, differences in community composition could be observed between meadows, mown pastures and pastures but not between different kinds of meadows (cutted once versus three times) and mown pastures (fertilized versus non-fertilized). The results also indicate, that whether there are differences between land-use types or not strongly depends on the investigated host plant species and ecosystem. Besides Methylobacterium, representatives of Methylophilus were detected. The results indicate that Methylobacterium species are generally abundant and stable members of the phyllosphere community whereas other genera occur more occasionally, and that Methylobacterium clearly dominates the methylotrophic phyllosphere community. (C) 2011 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.	2011	34	10.1016/j.syapm.2011.08.005	YES	Dave	
Alonso-Saez L; Andersson A; Heinrich F; Bertilsson S	High archaeal diversity in Antarctic circumpolar deep waters	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY REPORTS	Archaea are abundant in polar oceans but important ecological aspects of this group remain enigmatic, such as patterns of diversity and biogeography. Here, we provide the first high-throughput sequencing population study of Antarctic archaea based on 198 bp fragments of the 16S rRNA gene, targeting different water masses across the Amundsen and Ross Seas. Our results suggest that archaeal community composition is strongly shaped by hydrography and significantly influenced by environmental parameters. Archaeal communities from cold continental shelf waters (SW) of the Ross Sea were similar over depth with a single thaumarchaeal phylotype dominating Antarctic surface waters (AASW) and deeper SW (contributing up to 80% of reads). However, this phylotype contributed less than 8% of reads in circumpolar deep waters (CDW). A related thaumarchaeon (98% identity) was almost absent in AASW, but contributed up to 30% of reads in CDW, suggesting ecological differentiation of closely related phylotypes. Significantly higher archaeal richness and evenness were observed in CDW, with Shannon indices (c. 2.5) twice as high as for AASW, and high contributions of Group II Euryarchaeota. Based on these results, we suggest that CDW is a hotspot of archaeal diversity and may play an important role in the dispersal of archaeal phylotypes to other oceanic water masses.	2011	3	10.1111/j.1758-2229.2011.00282.x	MAYBE	Dave	
Stomp M; Huisman J; Mittelbach GG; Litchman E; Klausmeier CA	Large-scale biodiversity patterns in freshwater phytoplankton	ECOLOGY	Our planet shows striking gradients in the species richness of plants and animals, from high biodiversity in the tropics to low biodiversity in polar and high-mountain regions. Recently, similar patterns have been described for some groups of microorganisms, but the large-scale biogeographical distribution of freshwater phytoplankton diversity is still largely unknown. We examined the species diversity of freshwater phytoplankton sampled from 540 lakes and reservoirs distributed across the continental United States and found strong latitudinal, longitudinal, and altitudinal gradients in phytoplankton biodiversity, demonstrating that microorganisms can show substantial geographic variation in biodiversity. Detailed analysis using structural equation models indicated that these large-scale biodiversity gradients in freshwater phytoplankton diversity were mainly driven by local environmental factors, although there were residual direct effects of latitude, longitude, and altitude as well. Specifically, we found that phytoplankton species richness was an increasing saturating function of lake chlorophyll a concentration, increased with lake surface area and possibly increased with water temperature, resembling effects of productivity, habitat area, and temperature on diversity patterns commonly observed for macroorganisms. In turn, these local environmental factors varied along latitudinal, longitudinal, and altitudinal gradients. These results imply that changes in land use or climate that affect these local environmental factors are likely to have major impacts on large-scale biodiversity patterns of freshwater phytoplankton.	2011	92		YES	Dave	
Finkel OM; Burch AY; Lindow SE; Post AF; Belkin S	Geographical Location Determines the Population Structure in Phyllosphere Microbial Communities of a Salt-Excreting Desert Tree	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	The leaf surfaces of Tamarix, a salt-secreting desert tree, harbor a diverse community of microbial epiphytes. This ecosystem presents a unique combination of ecological characteristics and imposes a set of extreme stress conditions. The composition of the microbial community along ecological gradients was studied from analyses of microbial richness and diversity in the phyllosphere of three Tamarix species in the Mediterranean and Dead Sea regions in Israel and in two locations in the United States. Over 200,000 sequences of the 16S V6 and 18S V9 hypervariable regions revealed a diverse community, with 788 bacterial and 64 eukaryotic genera but only one archaeal genus. Both geographic location and tree species were determinants of microbial community structures, with the former being more dominant. Tree leaves of all three species in the Mediterranean region were dominated by Halomonas and Halobacteria, whereas trees from the Dead Sea area were dominated by Actinomycetales and Bacillales. Our findings demonstrate that microbial phyllosphere communities on different Tamarix species are highly similar in the same locale, whereas trees of the same species that grow in different climatic regions host distinct microbial communities.	2011	77	10.1128/AEM.05565-11	YES	Dave	
Kivlin SN; Hawkes CV; Treseder KK	Global diversity and distribution of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	Arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi form associations with most land plants and can control carbon, nitrogen, and phosphorus cycling between above- and belowground components of ecosystems. Current estimates of AM fungal distributions are mainly inferred from the individual distributions of plant biomes, and climatic factors. However, dispersal limitation, local environmental conditions,and interactions among AM fungal taxa may also determine local diversity and global distributions. We assessed the relative importance of these potential controls by collecting 14,961 DNA sequences from 111 published studies and testing for relationships between AM fungal community composition and geography, environment, and plant biomes. Our results indicated that the global species richness of AM fungi was up to six times higher than previously estimated, largely owing to high beta diversity among sampling sites. Geographic distance, soil temperature and moisture, and plant community type were each significantly related to AM fungal community structure, but explained only a small amount of the observed variance. AM fungal species also tended to be phylogenetically clustered within sites, further suggesting that habitat filtering or dispersal limitation is a driver of AM fungal community assembly. Therefore, predicted shifts in climate and plant species distributions under global change may alter AM fungal communities. Published by Elsevier Ltd.	2011	43	10.1016/j.soilbio.2011.07.012	YES	Dave	
Pla-Rabes S; Flower RJ; Shilland EM; Kreiser AM	Assessing microbial diversity using recent lake sediments and estimations of spatio-temporal diversity	JOURNAL OF BIOGEOGRAPHY	Aim Recent papers have used large palaeolimnological datasets to reveal the biodiversity patterns of aquatic microorganisms. However, scant attention has been paid to the influence of time on these patterns. Where lake surficial sediment samples are used as integrals of diversity, the time interval of each sample varies according to differences in sediment accumulation rates. This paper aims to test the reliability of using lake surface sediments to measure and to compare microbial diversity when the potential influences of the species-time relationships are taken into account. Location Alpine lakes in Europe. Methods We analysed microorganism (siliceous microalgae) assemblages in three European Alpine lakes using short sediment cores (Pb-210-dated) and annual sediment trap samples from 12 UK lakes. The same number of individuals was pooled for each sample 500 times to avoid sampling effort effects and to standardize species diversity estimation. The influence of time on the diversity score was assessed by simulating an increase of time span for surface sediment samples by cumulatively adding in successive sediment core samples (from the most recent to the oldest). We used species richness (S) and the exponential of the bias-corrected Shannon entropy index (exp(Hb-c)) to estimate diversity. Results Increasing the time interval represented by a surficial sediment sample did not affect the diversity results. The estimation of diversity was similar for cumulative and non-cumulative samples. Diversity estimation was only altered in lakes experiencing high community turnover due to strong environmental forcing during the time period spanned by the cumulative sample. Main conclusions The use of surface lake sediments is suitable for estimating the average site diversity of free-living microorganisms. Diversity is integrated in a single sample and species assemblage composition is derived from microbial communities living in distinct lake microhabitats. Species remains, accumulated in a single sample over several years of environmental variability, represent a diversity integral that captures a spatio-temporal component equivalent to the gamma-diversity measure.	2011	38	10.1111/j.1365-2699.2011.02530.x	MAYBE	Dave	
Schiaffino MR; Unrein F; Gasol JM; Massana R; Balague V; Izaguirre I	Bacterial community structure in a latitudinal gradient of lakes: the roles of spatial versus environmental factors	FRESHWATER BIOLOGY	1. We analysed the latitudinal variation of bacterioplankton in 45 freshwater environments (lakes, shallow lakes and ponds) across a transect of more than 2100 km stretching from Argentinean Patagonia (45 degrees S) to Maritime Antarctica (63 degrees S), to determine the factors that mainly determine bacterioplankton community structure. 2. Bacterioplankton community composition (BCC) was assessed by a fingerprinting method (denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis) followed by band sequencing, whereas the abundances of total bacteria and picocyanobacteria were estimated by epifluorescence microscopy. 3. Bacterioplankton community composition was controlled by a combination of spatial (latitude and longitude) and environmental [e. g. phosphate, light diffuse attenuation coefficient (K-d) and dissolved organic carbon] factors. Total bacterioplankton abundance declined with latitude. A multiple regression analysis showed that phosphate, Kd and latitude had significant effects on total bacterioplankton abundance. 4. Of 76 operational taxonomic units identified in the studied lakes, 45 were shared between Patagonian and Antarctic water bodies, 28 were present only in Patagonian lakes and three were restricted to the Antarctic lakes. Significant differences were found in BCC between Patagonia and Antarctica. Among the sequences, 54% were similar (>97% sequence similarity) to others reported from cold habitats elsewhere on the planet (glaciers, high mountain lakes, Arctic). 5. Our results provide new evidence that supports the hypotheses of biogeographic patterns of bacterial assemblages and suggest that both spatial and environmental factors control bacterioplankton community structure.	2011	56	10.1111/j.1365-2427.2011.02628.x	MAYBE	Dave	
Zinger L; Amaral-Zettler LA; Fuhrman JA; Horner-Devine MC; Huse SM; Welch DBM; Martiny JBH; Sogin M; Boetius A; Ramette A	Global Patterns of Bacterial Beta-Diversity in Seafloor and Seawater Ecosystems	PLOS ONE	Background: Marine microbial communities have been essential contributors to global biomass, nutrient cycling, and biodiversity since the early history of Earth, but so far their community distribution patterns remain unknown in most marine ecosystems. Methodology/Principal Findings: The synthesis of 9.6 million bacterial V6-rRNA amplicons for 509 samples that span the global oceans surface to the deep-sea floor shows that pelagic and benthic communities greatly differ, at all taxonomic levels, and share <10% bacterial types defined at 3% sequence similarity level. Surface and deep water, coastal and open ocean, and anoxic and oxic ecosystems host distinct communities that reflect productivity, land influences and other environmental constraints such as oxygen availability. The high variability of bacterial community composition specific to vent and coastal ecosystems reflects the heterogeneity and dynamic nature of these habitats. Both pelagic and benthic bacterial community distributions correlate with surface water productivity, reflecting the coupling between both realms by particle export. Also, differences in physical mixing may play a fundamental role in the distribution patterns of marine bacteria, as benthic communities showed a higher dissimilarity with increasing distance than pelagic communities. Conclusions/Significance: This first synthesis of global bacterial distribution across different ecosystems of the Worlds oceans shows remarkable horizontal and vertical large-scale patterns in bacterial communities. This opens interesting perspectives for the definition of biogeographical biomes for bacteria of ocean waters and the seabed.	2011	6	10.1371/journal.pone.0024570	YES	Dave	
McAllister SM; Davis RE; McBeth JM; Tebo BM; Emerson D; Moyer CL	Biodiversity and Emerging Biogeography of the Neutrophilic Iron-Oxidizing Zetaproteobacteria	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Members of the neutrophilic iron-oxidizing candidate class Zetaproteobacteria have predominantly been found at sites of microbially mediated iron oxidation in marine environments around the Pacific Ocean. Eighty-four full-length (>1,400-bp) and 48 partial-length Zetaproteobacteria small-subunit (SSU) rRNA gene sequences from five novel clone libraries, one novel Zetaproteobacteria isolate, and the GenBank database were analyzed to assess the biodiversity of this burgeoning class of the Proteobacteria and to investigate its biogeography between three major sampling regions in the Pacific Ocean: Loihi Seamount, the Southern Mariana Trough, and the Tonga Arc. Sequences were grouped into operational taxonomic units (OTUs) on the basis of a 97% minimum similarity. Of the 28 OTUs detected, 13 were found to be endemic to one of the three main sampling regions and 2 were ubiquitous throughout the Pacific Ocean. Additionally, two deeply rooted OTUs that potentially dominate communities of iron oxidizers originating in the deep subsurface were identified. Spatial autocorrelation analysis and analysis of molecular variance (AMOVA) showed that geographic distance played a significant role in the distribution of Zetaproteobacteria biodiversity, whereas environmental parameters, such as temperature, pH, or total Fe concentration, did not have a significant effect. These results, detected using the coarse resolution of the SSU rRNA gene, indicate that the Zetaproteobacteria have a strong biogeographic signal.	2011	77	10.1128/AEM.00533-11	YES	Dave	
Fortunato CS; Crump BC	Bacterioplankton Community Variation Across River to Ocean Environmental Gradients	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Coastal zones encompass a complex spectrum of environmental gradients that each impact the composition of bacterioplankton communities. Few studies have attempted to address these gradients comprehensively. We generated a synoptic, 16S rRNA gene-based bacterioplankton community profile of a coastal zone by applying the fingerprinting technique denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis to water samples collected from the Columbia River, estuary, and plume, and along coastal transects covering 360 km of the Oregon and Washington coasts and extending to the deep ocean (> 2,000 m). Communities were found to cluster into five distinct groups based on location in the system (ANOSIM, p < 0.003): estuary, plume, epipelagic, shelf bottom (depth < 150 m), and slope bottom (depth > 650 m). Across all environments, abiotic factors (salinity, temperature, depth) explained most of the community variability (rho = 0.734). But within each coastal environment, biotic factors explained most of the variability. Thus, structuring physical factors in coastal zones, such as salinity and temperature, define the boundaries of many distinct microbial habitats, but within these habitats variability in microbial communities is explained by biological gradients in primary and secondary productivity.	2011	62	10.1007/s00248-011-9805-z	MAYBE	Dave	
Dequiedt S; Saby NPA; Lelievre M; Jolivet C; Thioulouse J; Toutain B; Arrouays D; Bispo A; Lemanceau P; Ranjard L	Biogeographical patterns of soil molecular microbial biomass as influenced by soil characteristics and management	GLOBAL ECOLOGY AND BIOGEOGRAPHY	Aim The spatial organization of soil microbial communities on large scales and the identification of environmental factors structuring their distribution have been little investigated. The overall objective of this study was to determine the spatial patterning of microbial biomass in soils over a wide extent and to rank the environmental filters most influencing this distribution. Location French territory using the French Soil Quality Monitoring Network. This network covers the entire French territory and soils were sampled at 2150 sites along a systematic grid. Methods The soil DNA extracted from all these soils was expressed in terms of soil molecular microbial biomass and related to other soil and land-use data over French territory. Results This study provides the first extensive map of microbial biomass and reveals the heterogeneous and spatially structured distribution of this biomass on the scale of France. The main factors driving biomass distribution are the physico-chemical properties of the soil (texture, pH and total organic carbon) as well as land use. Soils from land used for intensive agriculture, especially monoculture and vineyards, exhibited the smallest biomass pools. Interestingly, factors known to influence the large-scale distribution of macroorganisms, such as climatic factors, were not identified as important drivers for microbial communities. Main conclusions Microbial abundance is spatially structured and dependent on local filters such as soil characteristics and land use but is relatively independent of global filters such as climatic factors or the presence of natural barriers. Our study confirms that the biogeography of microorganisms differs fundamentally from the biogeography of macroorganisms and that soil management can have significant large-scale effects.	2011	20	10.1111/j.1466-8238.2010.00628.x	MAYBE	Dave	
Griffiths RI; Thomson BC; James P; Bell T; Bailey M; Whiteley AS	The bacterial biogeography of British soils	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Despite recognition of the importance of soil bacteria to terrestrial ecosystem functioning there is little consensus on the factors regulating belowground biodiversity. Here we present a multi-scale spatial assessment of soil bacterial community profiles across Great Britain (> 1000 soil cores), and show the first landscape scale map of bacterial distributions across a nation. Bacterial diversity and community dissimilarities, assessed using terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism, were most strongly related to soil pH providing a large-scale confirmation of the role of pH in structuring bacterial taxa. However, while alpha diversity was positively related to pH, the converse was true for beta diversity (between sample variance in alpha diversity). beta diversity was found to be greatest in acidic soils, corresponding with greater environmental heterogeneity. Analyses of clone libraries revealed the pH effects were predominantly manifest at the level of broad bacterial taxonomic groups, with acidic soils being dominated by few taxa (notably the group 1 Acidobacteria and Alphaproteobacteria). We also noted significant correlations between bacterial communities and most other measured environmental variables (soil chemistry, aboveground features and climatic variables), together with significant spatial correlations at close distances. In particular, bacterial and plant communities were closely related signifying no strong evidence that soil bacteria are driven by different ecological processes to those governing higher organisms. We conclude that broad scale surveys are useful in identifying distinct soil biomes comprising reproducible communities of dominant taxa. Together these results provide a baseline ecological framework with which to pursue future research on both soil microbial function, and more explicit biome based assessments of the local ecological drivers of bacterial biodiversity.	2011	13	10.1111/j.1462-2920.2011.02480.x	YES	Dave	
Zinger L; Lejon DPH; Baptist F; Bouasria A; Aubert S; Geremia RA; Choler P	Contrasting Diversity Patterns of Crenarchaeal, Bacterial and Fungal Soil Communities in an Alpine Landscape	PLOS ONE	Background: The advent of molecular techniques in microbial ecology has aroused interest in gaining an understanding about the spatial distribution of regional pools of soil microbes and the main drivers responsible of these spatial patterns. Here, we assessed the distribution of crenarcheal, bacterial and fungal communities in an alpine landscape displaying high turnover in plant species over short distances. Our aim is to determine the relative contribution of plant species composition, environmental conditions, and geographic isolation on microbial community distribution. Methodology/Principal Findings: Eleven types of habitats that best represent the landscape heterogeneity were investigated. Crenarchaeal, bacterial and fungal communities were described by means of Single Strand Conformation Polymorphism. Relationships between microbial beta diversity patterns were examined by using Bray-Curtis dissimilarities and Principal Coordinate Analyses. Distance-based redundancy analyses and variation partitioning were used to estimate the relative contributions of different drivers on microbial beta diversity. Microbial communities tended to be habitat-specific and did not display significant spatial autocorrelation. Microbial beta diversity correlated with soil pH. Fungal beta-diversity was mainly related to soil organic matter. Though the effect of plant species composition was significant for all microbial groups, it was much stronger for Fungi. In contrast, geographic distances did not have any effect on microbial beta diversity. Conclusions/Significance: Microbial communities exhibit non-random spatial patterns of diversity in alpine landscapes. Crenarcheal, bacterial and fungal community turnover is high and associated with plant species composition through different set of soil variables, but is not caused by geographical isolation.	2011	6	10.1371/journal.pone.0019950	YES	Dave	
Martiny JBH; Eisen JA; Penn K; Allison SD; Horner-Devine MC	Drivers of bacterial beta-diversity depend on spatial scale	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	The factors driving beta-diversity (variation in community composition) yield insights into the maintenance of biodiversity on the planet. Here we tested whether the mechanisms that underlie bacterial beta-diversity vary over centimeters to continental spatial scales by comparing the composition of ammonia-oxidizing bacteria communities in salt marsh sediments. As observed in studies of macroorganisms, the drivers of salt marsh bacterial beta-diversity depend on spatial scale. In contrast to macroorganism studies, however, we found no evidence of evolutionary diversification of ammonia-oxidizing bacteria taxa at the continental scale, despite an overall relationship between geographic distance and community similarity. Our data are consistent with the idea that dispersal limitation at local scales can contribute to beta-diversity, even though the 16S rRNA genes of the relatively common taxa are globally distributed. These results highlight the importance of considering multiple spatial scales for understanding microbial biogeography.	2011	108	10.1073/pnas.1016308108	YES	Dave	
Fierer N; McCain CM; Meir P; Zimmermann M; Rapp JM; Silman MR; Knight R	Microbes do not follow the elevational diversity patterns of plants and animals	ECOLOGY	The elevational gradient in plant and animal diversity is one of the most widely documented patterns in ecology and, although no consensus explanation exists, many hypotheses have been proposed over the past century to explain these patterns. Historically, research on elevational diversity gradients has focused almost exclusively on plant and animal taxa. As a result, we do not know whether microbes exhibit elevational gradients in diversity that parallel those observed for macroscopic taxa. This represents a key knowledge gap in ecology, especially given the ubiquity, abundance, and functional importance of microbes. Here we show that, across a montane elevational gradient in eastern Peru, bacteria living in three distinct habitats (organic soil, mineral soil, and leaf surfaces) exhibit no significant elevational gradient in diversity (r(2) < 0.17, P > 0.1 in all cases), in direct contrast to the significant diversity changes observed for plant and animal taxa across the same montane gradient (r(2) > 0.75, P < 0.001 in all cases). This finding suggests that the biogeographical patterns exhibited by bacteria are fundamentally different from those of plants and animals, highlighting the need for the development of more inclusive concepts and theories in biogeography to explain these disparities.	2011	92	10.1890/10-1170.1	MAYBE	Dave	
Robeson MS; King AJ; Freeman KR; Birky CW; Martin AP; Schmidt SK	Soil rotifer communities are extremely diverse globally but spatially autocorrelated locally	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	Bdelloid rotifers are important contributors to biogeochemical cycling and trophic dynamics of both aquatic and terrestrial ecosystems, but little is known about their biogeographic distribution and community structure in terrestrial environments. This lack of knowledge stems from a lack of phylogenetic information and assumptions that microbial eukaryotes are globally distributed and have very limited diversity across vast geographic distances. However, these assumptions have been based more on assessments of their morphology than any measure of their true genetic diversity and biogeographic distribution. We developed specific primers for the cytochrome c oxidase subunit 1 (cox1) gene of bdelloid rotifers and amplified and cloned sequences using a nested sampling scheme that represented local (0-10 m) to global (up to 10,000 km) scales. Using phylogenetic community analyses (UniFrac) and geospatial statistics (semivariograms, mantel tests), we were able to reject the hypothesis that communities of rotifers are the same across even fairly small geographic distances. Bdelloid communities showed highly significant spatial structuring with spatial autocorrelation ranges of 54-133 m, but beyond that distance communities were extremely dissimilar. Furthermore, we show that these spatial patterns are driven not only by changes in relative abundance of phylotypes but also by absolute changes in phylotype occurrence (richness). There is almost no overlap in phylotype [ or operational taxonomic unit (OTU)] occurrence between communities at distances beyond the autocorrelation range (similar to 133 m). Such small species ranges, combined with their ubiquity in soils, make it increasingly clear that the biodiversity of bdelloid rotifers (and other less easily dispersed microbes) is much higher than previously thought.	2011	108	10.1073/pnas.1012678108	YES	Dave	
Soininen J; Korhonen JJ; Karhu J; Vetterli A	Disentangling the spatial patterns in community composition of prokaryotic and eukaryotic lake plankton	LIMNOLOGY AND OCEANOGRAPHY	We sampled 100 small lakes in Finland for bacterio-, phyto-, and zooplankton. The lakes were located in five drainage systems, 20 lakes for each system. We tested two main predictions: that the correlation between community similarity and geographical distance (spatial distance decay) is stronger at the across-drainage than at the within-drainage system scale, and that spatial distance decay is strongest for zooplankton and weakest for bacteria. We used a combination of direct ordination, multivariate statistical tests, and distance-based approaches to examine spatial patterns in our data. Our analyses confirmed both of our predictions. Spatial distance decay was scale-dependent; communities were overall weakly spatially structured within the drainage systems, yet distance decay was significant for all planktonic groups across drainage systems. Spatial distance decay was stronger for zooplankton, with higher slopes and shorter halving distances, than for phytoplankton and bacteria. These results provide evidence that distance decay of similarity is related to study scale, environment, and organism characteristics. Planktonic communities may be controlled by both dispersal-driven assembly and local ecological determinism, with the balance between these two forces depending on study scale.	2011	56	10.4319/lo.2011.56.2.0508	YES	Dave	
Hossain Z; Sugiyama S	Geographical structure of soil microbial communities in northern Japan: Effects of distance, land use type and soil properties	EUROPEAN JOURNAL OF SOIL BIOLOGY	Geographical assemblages of biological community are explained by natural selection and/or by stochastic processes of death and recruitment of individuals. We evaluated geographical pattern of the structure of soil bacterial and fungal communities at 32 sites distributed over 8000 km(2) in northern Japan, to examine (1) relative contribution of environmental factors and geographical distance (2) roles of land use types and soil properties, and (3) differences in spatial pattern between bacterial and fungal communities. The abundance and composition of soil bacterial and fungal communities were evaluated by phospholipid fatty acid (PLFA) profiling and denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) method with 16S rDNA and 18S rDNA. PLFA profiling and DNA fingerprinting revealed that geographical distance did not significantly affect geographical patterns of microbial communities, while land use and soil chemical properties had large significant effects. The four land use types (bare ground, agricultural land, grassland, and forest) explained about 30.0% of the total variation in bacterial PLFA abundance, mostly because of their differing soil properties. Correlations with soil properties suggest that litter input from aboveground vegetation determines the bacterial abundance in bare ground and agricultural land, whereas soil pH regulates the bacterial abundance in grassland and forests. DGGE results suggest that fungal community structure is sensitive to human disturbance because agricultural land showed significantly different fungal community structure from other types. (C) 2010 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.	2011	47	10.1016/j.ejsobi.2010.11.007	YES	Dave	
Wang JJ; Soininen J; Zhang Y; Wang BX; Yang XD; Shen J	Contrasting patterns in elevational diversity between microorganisms and macroorganisms	JOURNAL OF BIOGEOGRAPHY	Aim Data and analyses of elevational gradients in diversity have been central to the development and evaluation of a range of general theories of biodiversity. Elevational diversity patterns have, however, been severely understudied for microbes, which often represent decomposer subsystems. Consequently, generalities in the patterns of elevational diversity across different trophic levels remain poorly understood. Our aim was to examine elevational gradients in the diversity of macroinvertebrates, diatoms and bacteria along a stony stream that covered a large elevational gradient. Location Laojun Mountain, Yunnan province, China. Methods The sampling scheme included 26 sites spaced at elevational intervals of 89 m from 1820 to 4050 m elevation along a stony stream. Macroinvertebrate and diatom richness were determined based on the morphology of the specimens. Taxonomic richness for bacteria was quantified using a molecular fingerprinting method. Over 50 environmental variables were measured at each site to quantify environmental variables that could correlate with the patterns of diversity. We used eigenvector-based spatial filters with multiple regressions to account for spatial autocorrelation. Results The bacterial richness followed an unexpected monotonic increase with elevation. Diatoms decreased monotonically, and macroinvertebrate richness showed a clear unimodal pattern with elevation. The unimodal richness pattern for macroinvertebrates was best explained by the mid-domain effect (r(2) = 0.72). The diatom richness was best explained by the variation in nutrient supply, and the increase in bacterial richness with elevation may be related to an increased carbon supply. Main conclusions We found contrasting patterns in elevational diversity among the three studied multi-trophic groups comprising unicellular and multicellular aquatic taxa. We also found that there may be fundamental differences in the mechanisms underlying these species diversity patterns.	2011	38	10.1111/j.1365-2699.2010.02423.x	MAYBE	Dave	
Qian PY; Wang Y; Lee OO; Lau SCK; Yang JK; Lafi FF; Al-Suwailem A; Wong TYH	Vertical stratification of microbial communities in the Red Sea revealed by 16S rDNA pyrosequencing	ISME JOURNAL	The ecosystems of the Red Sea are among the least-explored microbial habitats in the marine environment. In this study, we investigated the microbial communities in the water column overlying the Atlantis II Deep and Discovery Deep in the Red Sea. Taxonomic classification of pyrosequencing reads of the 16S rRNA gene amplicons showed vertical stratification of microbial diversity from the surface water to 1500m below the surface. Significant differences in both bacterial and archaeal diversity were observed in the upper (2 and 50m) and deeper layers (200 and 1500 m). There were no obvious differences in community structure at the same depth for the two sampling stations. The bacterial community in the upper layer was dominated by Cyanobacteria whereas the deeper layer harbored a large proportion of Proteobacteria. Among Archaea, Euryarchaeota, especially Halobacteriales, were dominant in the upper layer but diminished drastically in the deeper layer where Desulfurococcales belonging to Crenarchaeota became the dominant group. The results of our study indicate that the microbial communities sampled in this study are different from those identified in water column in other parts of the world. The depth-wise compositional variation in the microbial communities is attributable to their adaptations to the various environments in the Red Sea. The ISME Journal (2011) 5, 507-518; doi: 10.1038/ismej.2010.112; published online 29 July 2010	2011	5	10.1038/ismej.2010.112	MAYBE	Dave	
Bru D; Ramette A; Saby NPA; Dequiedt S; Ranjard L; Jolivet C; Arrouays D; Philippot L	Determinants of the distribution of nitrogen-cycling microbial communities at the landscape scale	ISME JOURNAL	Little information is available regarding the landscape-scale distribution of microbial communities and its environmental determinants. However, a landscape perspective is needed to understand the relative importance of local and regional factors and land management for the microbial communities and the ecosystem services they provide. In the most comprehensive analysis of spatial patterns of microbial communities to date, we investigated the distribution of functional microbial communities involved in N-cycling and of the total bacterial and crenarchaeal communities over 107 sites in Burgundy, a 31 500km(2) region of France, using a 16 x 16 km(2) sampling grid. At each sampling site, the abundance of total bacteria, crenarchaea, nitrate reducers, denitrifiers- and ammonia oxidizers were estimated by quantitative PCR and 42 soil physico-chemical properties were measured. The relative contributions of land use, spatial distance, climatic conditions, time, and soil physico-chemical properties to the spatial distribution of the different communities were analyzed by canonical variation partitioning. Our results indicate that 43-85% of the spatial variation in community abundances could be explained by the measured environmental parameters, with soil chemical properties (mostly pH) being the main driver. We found spatial autocorrelation up to 739km and used geostatistical modelling to generate predictive maps of the distribution of microbial communities at the landscape scale. The present study highlights the potential of a spatially explicit approach for microbial ecology to identify the overarching factors driving the spatial heterogeneity of microbial communities even at the landscape scale. The ISME Journal (2011) 5, 532-542; doi: 10.1038/ismej.2010.130; published online 12 August 2010	2011	5	10.1038/ismej.2010.130	YES	Dave	
Steger D; Wentrup C; Braunegger C; Deevong P; Hofer M; Richter A; Baranyi C; Pester M; Wagner M; Loy A	Microorganisms with Novel Dissimilatory (Bi)Sulfite Reductase Genes Are Widespread and Part of the Core Microbiota in Low-Sulfate Peatlands	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Peatlands of the Lehstenbach catchment (Germany) house as-yet-unidentified microorganisms with phylogenetically novel variants of the dissimilatory (bi)sulfite reductase genes dsrAB. These genes are characteristic of microorganisms that reduce sulfate, sulfite, or some organosulfonates for energy conservation but can also be present in anaerobic syntrophs. However, nothing is currently known regarding the abundance, community dynamics, and biogeography of these dsrAB-carrying microorganisms in peatlands. To tackle these issues, soils from a Lehstenbach catchment site (Schloppnerbrunnen II fen) from different depths were sampled at three time points over a 6-year period to analyze the diversity and distribution of dsrAB-containing microorganisms by a newly developed functional gene microarray and quantitative PCR assays. Members of novel, uncultivated dsrAB lineages (approximately representing species-level groups) (i) dominated a temporally stable but spatially structured dsrAB community and (ii) represented core members (up to 1% to 1.7% relative abundance) of the autochthonous microbial community in this fen. In addition, denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE)- and clone library-based comparisons of the dsrAB diversity in soils from a wet meadow, three bogs, and five fens of various geographic locations (distance of similar to 1 to 400 km) identified that one Syntrophobacter-related and nine novel dsrAB lineages are widespread in low-sulfate peatlands. Signatures of biogeography in dsrB-based DGGE data were not correlated with geographic distance but could be explained largely by soil pH and wetland type, implying that the distribution of dsrAB-carrying microorganisms in wetlands on the scale of a few hundred kilometers is not limited by dispersal but determined by local environmental conditions.	2011	77	10.1128/AEM.01352-10	YES	Dave	
Rice WC; Gowda PH	Influence of geographical location, crop type and crop residue cover on bacterial and fungal community structures	GEODERMA	The objective of this study was to evaluate the effects of geographical location, crop type, and residue coverage on soil microbial assemblages in Sherm soil from 30 geographically separate commercial fields in Ochiltree and Moore Counties of Texas. Crop residue coverage was derived from spectral data and used to classify sorghum and wheat fields into high and low crop residue categories. Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis-polymerase chain reaction (DGGE-PCR) assays employing universal PCR primers that target prokaryotic and eukaryotic ribosomal genes were used to evaluate microbial community structure. An interaction between geographical location, crop type, and crop residue coverage was observed. A 50% similarity level was observed for overall bacterial community structure as determined using 16S data while a 59% similarity was observed for overall fungal community structure using 18S data. For the 16S composite dataset, high overall rates of correct classification (ORCC) were observed based on the user-defined groups of county by crop by residue coverage. A similar result was observed for fungal community structure using primer set FR1GC-FF390. Our data support the hypothesis that there are multiple provinces and multiple habitats that govern the assemblage of free-living taxa within the Moore-Ochiltree County agroecosystem. An ancient microbial assemblage based on historical features was identified and is still visible despite the presence of different crop types and cropping systems (Conventional vs. Conservation). For sorghum and wheat grown in Moore and Ochiltree Counties, a two-province state (Moore and Ochiltree Counties) was defined comprised of four habitats i.e. sorghum and wheat habitats influence by degree of residue coverage. Crop type and residue coverage can affect microbial assemblages within a geographical context. Published by Elsevier B.V.	2011	160	10.1016/j.geoderma.2010.09.003	MAYBE	Dave	
Yang JK; Sun J; Lee OO; Wong YH; Qian PY	Phylogenetic diversity and community structure of sponge-associated bacteria from mangroves of the Caribbean Sea	AQUATIC MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	To gain insight into the species richness and phylogeny of the microbial communities associated with sponges in mangroves, we performed an extensive phylogenetic analysis, based on terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism profiling and 16S ribosomal RNA gene sequences, of the 4 sponge species Aplysina fulva, Haliclona hogarthi, Tedania ignis and Ircinia strobilina as well as of ambient seawater. The sponge-associated bacterial communities contained 13 phyla, including Poribacteria and an unclassified group not found in the ambient seawater community, 98% of which comprised Proteobacteria, Cyanobacteria and Bacteroidetes. Although the sponges themselves were phylogenetically distant and bacterial community variation within the host species was observed, microbial phyla such as Proteobacteria, Acidobacteria, Chloroflexi and the unclassified group were consistently observed as the dominant populations within the communities. The sponge-associated bacterial communities resident in the Caribbean Sea mangroves are phylogenetically similar but significantly distinct from communities found in other biogeographical sites such as the deep-water environments of the Caribbean Sea, the South China Sea and Australia. The interspecific variation within the host species and the distinct biogeographical characteristics that the sponge-associated bacteria exhibited indicate that the acquisition, establishment and formation of functional sponge-associated bacterial communities may initially be the product of both vertical and horizontal transmission, and is then shaped by the internal environment created by the sponge species and certain external environmental factors.	2011	62	10.3354/ame01473	MAYBE	Dave	
Hovatter SR; Dejelo C; Case AL; Blackwood CB	Metacommunity organization of soil microorganisms depends on habitat defined by presence of Lobelia siphilitica plants	ECOLOGY	We tested regional-scale spatial patterns in soil microbial community composition for agreement with species sorting and dispersal limitation, two alternative mechanisms behind different models of metacommunity organization. Furthermore, we tested whether regional metacommunity organization depends on local habitat type. We sampled from sites across Ohio and West Virginia hosting populations of Lobelia siphilitica, and compared the metacommunity organization of soil microbial communities under L. siphilitica to those in adjacent areas at each site. In the absence of L. siphilitica, bacterial community composition across the region was consistent with species sorting. However, under L. siphilitica, bacterial community composition was consistent with dispersal limitation. Fungal community composition remained largely unexplained, although fungal communities under L. siphilitica were both significantly different in composition and less variable in composition than in adjacent areas. Our results show that communities in different local habitat types (e. g., in the presence or absence of a particular plant) may be structured on a regional scale by different processes, despite being separated by only centimeters at the local scale.	2011	92	10.1890/10-0332.1	MAYBE	Dave	
van der Gast CJ; Gosling P; Tiwari B; Bending GD	Spatial scaling of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungal diversity is affected by farming practice	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	P>Evidence suggests that microbial communities show patterns of spatial scaling which can be driven by geographical distance and environmental heterogeneity. Here we demonstrate that human management can have a major impact on microbial distribution patterns at both the local and landscape scale. Mycorrhizal fungi are vital components of terrestrial ecosystems, forming a mutualistic symbiosis with plant roots which has a major impact on above ground ecology and productivity. We used contrasting agricultural systems to investigate the spatial scaling of the most widespread mycorrhizal fungus group, the arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF). Using multiple sampling sites with a maximum separation of 250 km we describe for the first time the roles which land management, environmental heterogeneity and geographical distance play in determining spatial patterns of microbial distribution. Analysis of AMF taxa-area relationships at each sampling site revealed that AMF diversity and spatial turnover was greater under organic relative to conventional farm management. At the regional scale (250 km) distance-decay analyses showed that there was significant change in AMF community composition with distance, and that this was greater under organic relative to conventional management. Environmental heterogeneity was found to be the major factor determining turnover of AMF taxa at the landscape scale. Overall we demonstrate that human management can play a key role in determining the turnover of microbial communities at both the local and regional scales.	2011	13	10.1111/j.1462-2920.2010.02326.x	YES	Dave	
Queloz V; Sieber TN; Holdenrieder O; McDonald BA; Grunig CR	No biogeographical pattern for a root-associated fungal species complex	GLOBAL ECOLOGY AND BIOGEOGRAPHY	Aim The biogeography of microbes is poorly understood and there is an open debate regarding if and how microbial biodiversity is structured. At the beginning of the 20th century, Baas Becking laid the foundations for the biogeography of microbes by stating that Everything is everywhere, but the environment selects (the EisE hypothesis). This hypothesis remained dogma for almost a century. However, the recognition that microbial species are often assemblages of reproductively isolated lineages challenged the EisE hypothesis, leading to the now common assumption that microbial communities possess cryptic biogeographic structures. We tested the presence of a cryptic biogeographical structure for a well-characterized fungal species complex (the Phialocephala fortinii s.l.-Acephala applanata species complex, PAC) using precise molecular species resolution. In addition, we analysed factors that could govern PAC community assembling. Locations Forty-four study sites in temperate and boreal forests across the Northern Hemisphere were included. Methods (1) The distance-decay relationship among PAC communities was calculated and a resampling procedure was applied to analyse the effect of sampling intensity and geographic distances among PAC communities. (2) Factors shaping PAC communities (e.g. climatic factors and tree species composition) were studied. (3) We tested PAC communities for random composition. Results We found that the similarity of species assemblages did not decrease with increasing geographical distance. Moreover, species diversity did not increase by expanding the area sampled. Instead, species diversity increased by increasing the sampling effort. Community composition correlated neither with tree species composition nor climate, and no association among species was observed. Main conclusions We could not discover any cryptic biogeographic structure even after applying refined species assignment but we demonstrate the importance of sampling effort for understanding the biogeography of microorganisms. Moreover, we show that primarily stochastic effects are responsible for the species composition of PAC communities.	2011	20	10.1111/j.1466-8238.2010.00589.x	YES	Dave	
Edwards A; Anesio AM; Rassner SM; Sattler B; Hubbard B; Perkins WT; Young M; Griffith GW	Possible interactions between bacterial diversity, microbial activity and supraglacial hydrology of cryoconite holes in Svalbard	ISME JOURNAL	The diversity of highly active bacterial communities in cryoconite holes on three Arctic glaciers in Svalbard was investigated using terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) of the 16S rRNA locus. Construction and sequencing of clone libraries allowed several members of these communities to be identified, with Proteobacteria being the dominant one, followed by Cyanobacteria and Bacteroidetes. T-RFLP data revealed significantly different communities in holes on the (cold) valley glacier Austre Broggerbreen relative to two adjacent (polythermal) valley glaciers, Midtre Lovenbreen and Vestre Broggerbreen. These population compositions correlate with differences in organic matter content, temperature and the metabolic activity of microbial communities concerned. No within-glacier spatial patterns were observed in the communities identified over the 2-year period and with the 1 km-spaced sampling. We infer that surface hydrology is an important factor in the development of cryoconite bacterial communities. The ISME Journal (2011) 5, 150-160; doi:10.1038/ismej.2010.100; published online 22 July 2010	2011	5	10.1038/ismej.2010.100	MAYBE	Dave	
Agogue H; Lamy D; Neal PR; Sogin ML; Herndl GJ	Water mass-specificity of bacterial communities in the North Atlantic revealed by massively parallel sequencing	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	Bacterial assemblages from subsurface (100 m depth), meso- (200-1000 m depth) and bathy-pelagic (below 1000 m depth) zones at 10 stations along a North Atlantic Ocean transect from 60 degrees N to 5 degrees S were characterized using massively parallel pyrotag sequencing of the V6 region of the 16S rRNA gene (V6 pyrotags). In a dataset of more than 830 000 pyrotags, we identified 10 780 OTUs of which 52% were singletons. The singletons accounted for less than 2% of the OTU abundance, whereas the 100 and 1000 most abundant OTUs represented 80% and 96% respectively of all recovered OTUs. Non-metric Multi-Dimensional Scaling and Canonical Correspondence Analysis of all the OTUs excluding the singletons revealed a clear clustering of the bacterial communities according to the water masses. More than 80% of the 1000 most abundant OTUs corresponded to Proteobacteria of which 55% were Alphaproteobacteria, mostly composed of the SAR11 cluster. Gammaproteobacteria increased with depth and included a relatively large number of OTUs belonging to Alteromonadales and Oceanospirillales. The bathypelagic zone showed higher taxonomic evenness than the overlying waters, albeit bacterial diversity was remarkably variable. Both abundant and low-abundance OTUs were responsible for the distinct bacterial communities characterizing the major deep-water masses. Taken together, our results reveal that deep-water masses act as bio-oceanographic islands for bacterioplankton leading to water mass-specific bacterial communities in the deep waters of the Atlantic.	2011	20	10.1111/j.1365-294X.2010.04932.x	MAYBE	Dave	
Peay KG; Garbelotto M; Bruns TD	Evidence of dispersal limitation in soil microorganisms: Isolation reduces species richness on mycorrhizal tree islands	ECOLOGY	Dispersal limitation plays an important role in a number of equilibrium and nonequilibrium theories about community ecology. In this study we use the framework of island biogeography to look for evidence of dispersal limitation in ectomycorrhizal fungal assemblages on tree islands, patches of host trees located in a non-host vegetation matrix. Because of the potentially strong effects of island area on species richness and immigration, we chose to control island size by sampling tree islands consisting of a single host individual. Richness on tree islands was high, with estimates ranging up to 42 species of ectomycorrhizal fungi associating with a single host individual. Species richness decreased significantly with increasing isolation of tree islands, with our regression predicting a 50% decrease in species richness when tree islands are located distances of similar to 1 km from large patches of contiguous forests. Despite the fact that fungal fruit bodies produce large numbers of spores with high potential for long-distance travel, these results suggest that dispersal limitation is significant in ectomycorrhizal assemblages. There were no discernible effects of isolation or environment on the species identity of tree island fungal colonists. In contrast to the highly predictable patterns of tree island colonization we observed in a previous study on early successional forests, we suggest that over longer time periods the community assembly process becomes more dominated by stochastic immigration and local extinction events.	2010	91	10.1890/09-2237.1	YES	Dave	
Redford AJ; Bowers RM; Knight R; Linhart Y; Fierer N	The ecology of the phyllosphere: geographic and phylogenetic variability in the distribution of bacteria on tree leaves	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	P>Large populations of bacteria live on leaf surfaces and these phyllosphere bacteria can have important effects on plant health. However, we currently have a limited understanding of bacterial diversity on tree leaves and the inter- and intra-specific variability in phyllosphere community structure. We used a barcoded pyrosequencing technique to characterize the bacterial communities from leaves of 56 tree species in Boulder, Colorado, USA, quantifying the intra- and inter-individual variability in the bacterial communities from 10 of these species. We also examined the geographic variability in phyllosphere communities on Pinus ponderosa from several locations across the globe. Individual tree species harboured high levels of bacterial diversity and there was considerable variability in community composition between trees. The bacterial communities were organized in patterns predictable from the relatedness of the trees as there was significant correspondence between tree phylogeny and bacterial community phylogeny. Inter-specific variability in bacterial community composition exceeded intra-specific variability, a pattern that held even across continents where we observed minimal geographic differentiation in the bacterial communities on P. ponderosa needles.	2010	12	10.1111/j.1462-2920.2010.02258.x	MAYBE	Dave	
Chu HY; Fierer N; Lauber CL; Caporaso JG; Knight R; Grogan P	Soil bacterial diversity in the Arctic is not fundamentally different from that found in other biomes	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	P>The severe environmental stresses of the Arctic may have promoted unique soil bacterial communities compared with those found in lower latitude environments. Here, we present a comprehensive analysis of the biogeography of soil bacterial communities in the Arctic using a high resolution bar-coded pyrosequencing technique. We also compared arctic soils with soils from a wide range of more temperate biomes to characterize variability in soil bacterial communities across the globe. We show that arctic soil bacterial community composition and diversity are structured according to local variation in soil pH rather than geographical proximity to neighboring sites, suggesting that local environmental heterogeneity is far more important than dispersal limitation in determining community-level differences. Furthermore, bacterial community composition had similar levels of variability, richness and phylogenetic diversity within arctic soils as across soils from a wide range of lower latitudes, strongly suggesting a common diversity structure within soil bacterial communities around the globe. These results contrast with the well-established latitudinal gradients in animal and plant diversity, suggesting that the controls on bacterial community distributions are fundamentally different from those observed for macro-organisms and that our biome definitions are not useful for predicting variability in soil bacterial communities across the globe.	2010	12	10.1111/j.1462-2920.2010.02277.x	YES	Dave	
Sapp M; Parker ER; Teal LR; Schratzberger M	Advancing the understanding of biogeography-diversity relationships of benthic microorganisms in the North Sea	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Knowledge on the spatial distribution of prokaryotic taxa is an essential basis to understand microbial diversity and the factors shaping its patterns. Large-scale patterns of faunal distribution are thought to be influenced by physical environmental factors, whereas smaller scale spatial heterogeneity is maintained by species-specific life-history characteristics, the quantity and quality of food sources and local disturbances including both natural and man-induced events. However, it is still not clear which environmental parameters control the diversity and community structure of sedimentary microorganisms mediating important ecosystem processes. In this study, multiscale patterns were elucidated at seven stations in the Oyster Ground, North Sea (54 degrees 4N/4 degrees E), 100 m to 11 km apart. These were related to biotic (e.g. multicellular organisms) and abiotic parameters (e.g. organic carbon content in the sediment) to establish the relationship between the distribution of both bacterial and archaeal communities and their environment. A relatively high variability was detected at all scales for bacterial and archaeal communities, both of which were controlled by different suites of biotic and abiotic environmental variables. The bacterial community consisted mainly of members belonging to the Gammaproteobacteria and the Fibrobacteres/Acidobacteria group. Members of the Deltaproteobacteria, Bacteroidetes and Actinobacteria also contributed to the bacterial community. Euryarchaeota formed the majority of archaeal phylotypes together with three phylotypes belonging to the Crenarchaeota.	2010	74	10.1111/j.1574-6941.2010.00957.x	MAYBE	Dave	
Hu AY; Yao TD; Jiao NZ; Liu YQ; Yang Z; Liu XB	Community structures of ammonia-oxidising archaea and bacteria in high-altitude lakes on the Tibetan Plateau	FRESHWATER BIOLOGY	P>1. Community structures of planktonic ammonia-oxidising archaea (AOA) and bacteria (AOB) were investigated for five high-altitude Tibetan lakes, which could be classified as freshwater, oligosaline or mesosaline, to develop a general view of the AOA and AOB in lakes on the Tibetan Plateau. 2. Based on PCR screening of the ammonia monooxygenase alpha-subunit (amoA) gene, AOA were present in 14 out of 17 samples, whereas AOB were detected in only four samples. Phylogenetic analyses indicated that the AOB communities were dominated by a unique monophylogenetic lineage within Nitrosomonas, which may represent a novel cluster of AOB. AOA, on the other hand, were distinct among lakes with different salinities. 3. Multivariate statistical analyses indicated a heterogeneous distribution of the AOA communities among lakes largely caused by lake salinity, whereas the uniform chemical properties within lakes and their geographical isolation may favour relatively homogeneous AOA communities within lakes. 4. Our results suggest a wide occurrence of AOA in Tibetan lakes and provide the first evidence of salinity-related differentiation of AOA community composition as well as potential geographical isolation of AOA in inland aquatic environments.	2010	55	10.1111/j.1365-2427.2010.02454.x	YES	Dave	
Bell T	Experimental tests of the bacterial distance-decay relationship	ISME JOURNAL	Community similarity declines with increasing geographic distance if species tend to be locally adapted or if they are dispersal limited. The distance-decay of similarity has been shown for bacteria previously, but distinguishing between these competing mechanisms is difficult from observational surveys. I found little evidence of a relationship between geographic distance and similarity in community composition in an aquatic bacterial community. When bacterial colonization occurred into initially identical sterile microcosms across a woodland, a strong distance-decay relationship was observed after 28 days, implying that dispersal limitation created a strong pattern in these communities in the absence of environmental differences. This conclusion was not supported by the results of a reciprocal transplant experiment. When microcosms at the extremities of the study area were transplanted to the opposite end of the study area, the communities converged on the community composition at the site to which they were transplanted. This convergence did not depend on whether colonization into the microcosms was prevented, implying a minor role for dispersal limitation over these spatial and temporal scales. Additional manipulations of colonization rates were consistent with the hypothesis that dispersal limitation structured these communities over short time scales (a few days), but that dispersal limitation had a minor role over longer time scales (47 days). The ISME Journal (2010) 4, 1357-1365; doi: 10.1038/ismej.2010.77; published online 10 June 2010	2010	4	10.1038/ismej.2010.77	YES	Dave	
Bissett A; Richardson AE; Baker G; Wakelin S; Thrall PH	Life history determines biogeographical patterns of soil bacterial communities over multiple spatial scales	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	The extent to which the distribution of soil bacteria is controlled by local environment vs. spatial factors (e.g. dispersal, colonization limitation, evolutionary events) is poorly understood and widely debated. Our understanding of biogeographic controls in microbial communities is likely hampered by the enormous environmental variability encountered across spatial scales and the broad diversity of microbial life histories. Here, we constrained environmental factors (soil chemistry, climate, above-ground plant community) to investigate the specific influence of space, by fitting all other variables first, on bacterial communities in soils over distances from m to 102 km. We found strong evidence for a spatial component to bacterial community structure that varies with scale and organism life history (dispersal and survival ability). Geographic distance had no influence over community structure for organisms known to have survival stages, but the converse was true for organisms thought to be less hardy. Community function (substrate utilization) was also shown to be highly correlated with community structure, but not to abiotic factors, suggesting nonstochastic determinants of community structure are important Our results support the view that bacterial soil communities are constrained by both edaphic factors and geographic distance and further show that the relative importance of such constraints depends critically on the taxonomic resolution used to evaluate spatio-temporal patterns of microbial diversity, as well as life history of the groups being investigated, much as is the case for macro-organisms.	2010	19	10.1111/j.1365-294X.2010.04804.x	YES	Dave	
Huber JA; Cantin HV; Huse SM; Welch DBM; Sogin ML; Butterfield DA	Isolated communities of Epsilonproteobacteria in hydrothermal vent fluids of the Mariana Arc seamounts	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Low-temperature hydrothermal vent fluids represent access points to diverse microbial communities living in oceanic crust. This study examined the distribution, relative abundance, and diversity of Epsilonproteobacteria in 14 low-temperature vent fluids from five volcanically active seamounts of the Mariana Arc using a 454 tag sequencing approach. Most vent fluids were enriched in cell concentrations compared with background seawater, and quantitative PCR results indicated that all fluids were dominated by bacteria. Operational taxonomic unit-based statistical tools applied to 454 data show that all vents from the northern end of the Mariana Arc grouped together, to the exclusion of southern arc seamounts, which were as distinct from one another as they were from northern seamounts. Statistical analysis also showed a significant relationship between seamount and individual vent groupings, suggesting that community membership may be linked to geographical isolation and not geochemical parameters. However, while there may be large-scale geographic differences, distance is not the distinguishing factor in the microbial community composition. At the local scale, most vents host a distinct population of Epsilonproteobacteria, regardless of seamount location. This suggests that there may be barriers to exchange and dispersal for these vent endemic microorganisms at hydrothermal seamounts of the Mariana Arc.	2010	73	10.1111/j.1574-6941.2010.00910.x	YES	Dave	
Lindstrom ES; Feng XM; Graneli W; Kritzberg ES	The interplay between bacterial community composition and the environment determining function of inland water bacteria	LIMNOLOGY AND OCEANOGRAPHY	We hypothesized that habitats differing in water flow regime would differ in bacterial function either because of differences in the local environment, in bacterial community composition (BCC), or in the mechanism shaping BCC (community assembly). In 20 lakes and 17 inlet streams BCC was analyzed by terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism of the gene coding for 16S ribosomal RNA, and bacterial function was estimated as bacterial production rate (BP, measured as leucine incorporation) per content of dissolved organic carbon (DOC) (BP : DOC). BCC in both lakes and streams appeared to be shaped by local environmental forces (i.e., species sorting according to metacommunity theory), but not by massive introduction of cells from the drainage area (mass effect). BP : DOC was lower in streams than in lakes, which appeared to be both because of differences in BCC and environment between lakes and streams, independent of each other. We found no support for an effect of water flow regime in itself (i.e., cell dispersal rate) causing the lower functionality of the streams. In streams, BP : DOC was correlated to both BCC and environment, independent of each other, while in lakes function could not be explained by either BCC or environment. The greater environmental variability among our streams than among our lakes may be the cause for the stronger BCC-function coupling in our streams, since smaller environmental variation among our lakes would allow a greater functional redundancy.	2010	55	10.4319/lo.2010.55.5.2052	MAYBE	Dave	
Amend AS; Seifert KA; Samson R; Bruns TD	Indoor fungal composition is geographically patterned and more diverse in temperate zones than in the tropics	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	Fungi are ubiquitous components of indoor human environments, where most contact between humans and microbes occurs. The majority of these organisms apparently play a neutral role, but some are detrimental to human lifestyles and health. Recent studies that used culture-independent sampling methods demonstrated a high diversity of indoor fungi distinct from that of outdoor environments. Others have shown temporal fluctuations of fungal assemblages in human environments and modest correlations with human activity, but global-scale patterns have not been examined, despite the manifest significance of biogeography in other microbial systems. Here we present a global survey of fungi from indoor environments (n = 72), using both taxonomic and phylogeny-informative molecular markers to determine whether global or local indoor factors determine indoor fungal composition. Contrary to common ecological patterns, we show that fungal diversity is significantly higher in temperate zones than in the tropics, with distance from the equator being the best predictor of phylogenetic community similarity. Fungal composition is significantly auto-correlated at the national and hemispheric spatial scales. Remarkably, building function has no significant effect on indoor fungal composition, despite stark contrasts between architecture and materials of some buildings in close proximity. Distribution of individual taxa is significantly range-and latitude-limited compared with a null model of randomized distribution. Our results suggest that factors driving fungal composition are primarily global rather than mediated by building design or function.	2010	107	10.1073/pnas.1000454107	YES	Dave	
Yergeau E; Bezemer TM; Hedlund K; Mortimer SR; Kowalchuk GA; van der Putten WH	Influences of space, soil, nematodes and plants on microbial community composition of chalk grassland soils	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	P>Microbial communities respond to a variety of environmental factors related to resources (e.g. plant and soil organic matter), habitat (e.g. soil characteristics) and predation (e.g. nematodes, protozoa and viruses). However, the relative contribution of these factors on microbial community composition is poorly understood. Here, we sampled soils from 30 chalk grassland fields located in three different chalk hill ridges of Southern England, using a spatially explicit sampling scheme. We assessed microbial communities via phospholipid fatty acid (PLFA) analyses and PCR-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) and measured soil characteristics, as well as nematode and plant community composition. The relative influences of space, soil, vegetation and nematodes on soil microorganisms were contrasted using variation partitioning and path analysis. Results indicate that soil characteristics and plant community composition, representing habitat and resources, shape soil microbial community composition, whereas the influence of nematodes, a potential predation factor, appears to be relatively small. Spatial variation in microbial community structure was detected at broad (between fields) and fine (within fields) scales, suggesting that microbial communities exhibit biogeographic patterns at different scales. Although our analysis included several relevant explanatory data sets, a large part of the variation in microbial communities remained unexplained (up to 92% in some analyses). However, in several analyses, significant parts of the variation in microbial community structure could be explained. The results of this study contribute to our understanding of the relative importance of different environmental and spatial factors in driving the composition of soil-borne microbial communities.	2010	12	10.1111/j.1462-2920.2009.02053.x	YES	Dave	
King AJ; Freeman KR; McCormick KF; Lynch RC; Lozupone C; Knight R; Schmidt SK	Biogeography and habitat modelling of high-alpine bacteria	NATURE COMMUNICATIONS	Soil microorganisms dominate terrestrial biogeochemical cycles; however, we know very little about their spatial distribution and how changes in the distributions of specific groups of microbes translate into landscape and global patterns of biogeochemical processes. In this paper, we use a nested sampling scheme at scales ranging from 2 to 2,000 m to show that bacteria have significant spatial autocorrelation in community composition up to a distance of 240 m, and that this pattern is driven by changes in the relative abundance of specific bacterial clades across the landscape. Analysis of clade habitat distribution models and spatial co-correlation maps identified soil pH, plant abundance and snow depth as major variables structuring bacterial communities across this landscape, and revealed an unexpected and important oligotrophic niche for the Rhodospirillales in soil. Furthermore, our global analysis of high-elevation soils from the Andes, Rockies, Himalayas and Alaskan range shows that habitat distribution models for bacteria have a strong predictive power across the entire globe.	2010	1	10.1038/ncomms1055	YES	Dave	
Mazaris AD; Moustaka-Gouni M; Michaloudi E; Bobori DC	Biogeographical patterns of freshwater micro- and macroorganisms: a comparison between phytoplankton, zooplankton and fish in the eastern Mediterranean	JOURNAL OF BIOGEOGRAPHY	Aim We investigated the biogeographical patterns of phytoplankton, zooplankton and fish in freshwater ecosystems. We tested whether spatial distance or environmental heterogeneity act as potential factors controlling community composition. Location Northern and central Greece, eastern Mediterranean. Method Data on 310 phytoplankton, 72 zooplankton and 37 fish species were collected from seven freshwater systems. Species occurrence data were used to generate similarity matrices describing community composition. We performed Mantel tests to compare spatial patterns in community composition of phytoplankton, zooplankton and fish. Next, we examined the correlation between geographical distance and the degree of similarity in community composition. The analysis was repeated for different taxonomic, trophic and size-based groups of the microorganisms studied. We assessed different environmental variables (topographic and limnological) as predictors of community composition. Results Phytoplankton community composition showed a strong positive correlation with environmental heterogeneity but was not correlated with the geographical distance between systems. Zooplankton community composition was unrelated to geographical distance and was only weakly correlated with environmental variables. In contrast, fish community similarity decayed significantly with distance. We found no relationship along all pairwise comparisons of the compositional matrices of the three groups. The pairwise comparisons of the different taxonomic, trophic and size-based groups of the microorganism communities studied were in accordance with the results for the entire microorganism community. Main conclusions Our results support the proposition that the biogeography of microorganisms does not demonstrate a distance-decay pattern and further suggest that, in reality, the drivers of distribution depend on the specific community examined. In contrast, the biogeography of macroorganisms was affected by geographical distance. These differences reflect the dispersal abilities of the different organisms. The microorganisms exhibit passive dispersal through the air, with local environmental conditions structuring their community composition. On the other hand, for macroorganisms such as fish, the terrestrial environment could pose barriers to their dispersal; with fish structuring distinctive communities over greater distances. Overall, we suggest that the biogeography of freshwater phytoplankton and zooplankton reflects contemporary environmental conditions, while the biogeographical patterns for fish inhabiting the same systems are related to factors affecting their dispersal ability.	2010	37	10.1111/j.1365-2699.2010.02294.x	YES	Dave	
Logue JB; Lindstrom ES	Species sorting affects bacterioplankton community composition as determined by 16S rDNA and 16S rRNA fingerprints	ISME JOURNAL	To understand the mechanisms determining community composition, it is essential to distinctively unravel the importance of local from that of regional processes. In this effort, the mechanisms underlying bacterioplankton community assembly were analysed in eight lakes of short water residence time (WRT) during a four-season sampling campaign. Bacterioplankton community composition (BCC) was determined using terminal-restriction fragment length polymorphism (t-RFLP) on the 16S rRNA gene (16S rDNA) and 16S rRNA. The relationship between similarity in BCC between a lake and its major inlet on the one hand and cell import per cell production rate from the inlet to the lake epilimnion on the other was used as a measure of the importance of cell dispersal (mass effects) for community assembly. Low similarities in BCC between lakes and their inlets were observed even at short WRTs, and the degree of similarity correlated better with the environmental conditions in lakes and streams than with cell import per cell production rates. Thus, mass effects seemed less important for local lake BCC in comparison to environmental habitat characteristics (species sorting). Analyses of 16S rDNA and 16S rRNA community fingerprints yielded similar results, indicating that species-sorting dynamics exerted an equally important effect on both the abundant and active fraction within the studied bacterioplankton communities. The ISME Journal (2010) 4, 729-738; doi:10.1038/ismej.2009.156; published online 4 February 2010	2010	4	10.1038/ismej.2009.156	MAYBE	Dave	
Milferstedt K; Youngblut ND; Whitaker RJ	Spatial structure and persistence of methanogen populations in humic bog lakes	ISME JOURNAL	Patterns of diversity within methanogenic archaea in humic bog lakes are quantified over time and space to determine the roles that spatial isolation and seasonal mixing play in structuring microbial populations. The protein encoding gene mcrA is used as a molecular marker for the detection of fine-scale differences between methanogens in four dimictic bog lakes in which the water column is mixed twice a year and one meromictic lake that is permanently stratified. Although similar sequences are observed in each bog lake, each lake has its own characteristic set of persisting sequence types, indicating that methanogen populations are delimited either by low migration between the anaerobic hypolimnia or by lake-specific selection. The meromictic lake is differentiated from all other lakes and contains sequences with a higher degree of microdiversity than the dimictic lakes. By relating the structure of diversity to the depth of each bog lake, we propose the hypothesis that the deeper parts of the water column favor microdiversification of methanogens, whereas the periodically disturbed water column of shallower dimictic lakes promote genetically more diverse methanogen communities. The ISME Journal (2010) 4, 764-776; doi:10.1038/ismej.2010.7; published online 25 February 2010	2010	4	10.1038/ismej.2010.7	MAYBE	Dave	
Oakley BB; Carbonero F; van der Gast CJ; Hawkins RJ; Purdy KJ	Evolutionary divergence and biogeography of sympatric niche-differentiated bacterial populations	ISME JOURNAL	Using multiple lines of evidence from denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis, environmental sequences and TaqMan quantitative PCR assays targeting a functional gene for sulfate respiration (dsr) affiliated with the geochemically important genus Desulfobulbus, we revealed strongly restricted distributions of specific genotypes and populations correlated with sampling position along an estuarine gradient free of dispersal barriers. Evidence of evolutionary divergence of populations was provided by three complementary analyses. First, analysis of molecular variance rejected the null hypothesis that genetic diversity within each sampling site was not significantly different than that of all sites pooled together (P<0.0001). Second, UniFrac and Parsimony tests showed phylogenetic clustering of sampling sites was highly significant (P<0.001). Third, pairwise F(ST) statistics showed significant evolutionary divergence of populations based on the location in the estuary. To test the hypothesis that environmental niche-driven evolutionary divergence can create and maintain microbial biogeography, we used both statistical inference and an experimental manipulation to assess the independent effects of environment and geography. Significant effects of each on genotype distributions and population divergence supported the hypothesis. Our data are consistent with both sympatric and parapatric models of speciation, and suggest niche partitioning can contribute to evolutionary divergence and observable biogeographic patterns in microbial communities even among closely related taxa at limited spatial scales without significant barriers to dispersal. The ISME Journal (2010) 4, 488-497; doi:10.1038/ismej.2009.146; published online 7 January 2010	2010	4	10.1038/ismej.2009.146	MAYBE	Dave	
Angel R; Soares MIM; Ungar ED; Gillor O	Biogeography of soil archaea and bacteria along a steep precipitation gradient	ISME JOURNAL	For centuries, biodiversity has spellbound biologists focusing mainly on macroorganisms diversity and almost neglecting the geographic mediated dynamics of microbial communities. We surveyed the diversity of soil bacteria and archaea along a steep precipitation gradient ranging from the Negev Desert in the south of Israel (<100mm annual rain) to the Mediterranean forests in the north (>900mm annual rain). Soil samples were retrieved from triplicate plots at five long-term ecological research stations, collected from two types of patches: plant interspaces and underneath the predominant perennial at each site. The molecular fingerprint of each soil sample was taken using terminal restriction length polymorphism of the 16S rRNA gene to evaluate the bacterial and archaeal community composition and diversity within and across sites. The difference in community compositions was not statistically significant within sites (P = 0.33 and 0.77 for bacteria and archaea, respectively), but it differed profoundly by ecosystem type. These differences could largely be explained by the precipitation gradient combined with the vegetation cover: the archaeal and bacterial operational taxonomic units were unique to each climatic region, that is, arid, semiarid and Mediterranean (P = 0.0001, for both domains), as well as patch type (P = 0.009 and 0.02 for bacteria and archaea, respectively). Our results suggest that unlike macroorganisms that are more diverse in the Mediterranean ecosystems compared with the desert sites, archaeal and bacterial diversities are not constrained by precipitation. However, the community composition is unique to the climate and vegetation cover that delineates each ecosystem. The ISME Journal (2010) 4, 553-563; doi:10.1038/ismej.2009.136; published online 24 December 2009	2010	4	10.1038/ismej.2009.136	MAYBE	Dave	
Galand PE; Potvin M; Casamayor EO; Lovejoy C	Hydrography shapes bacterial biogeography of the deep Arctic Ocean	ISME JOURNAL	It has been long debated as to whether marine microorganisms have a ubiquitous distribution or patterns of biogeography, but recently a consensus for the existence of microbial biogeography is emerging. However, the factors controlling the distribution of marine bacteria remain poorly understood. In this study, we combine pyrosequencing and traditional Sanger sequencing of the 16S rRNA gene to describe in detail bacterial communities from the deep Arctic Ocean. We targeted three separate water masses, from three oceanic basins and show that bacteria in the Arctic Ocean have a biogeography. The biogeographical distribution of bacteria was explained by the hydrography of the Arctic Ocean and subsequent circulation of its water masses. Overall, this first taxonomic description of deep Arctic bacteria communities revealed an abundant presence of SAR11 (Alphaproteobacteria), SAR406, SAR202 (Chloroflexi) and SAR324 (Deltaproteobacteria) clusters. Within each cluster, the abundance of specific phylotypes significantly varied among water masses. Water masses probably act as physical barriers limiting the dispersal and controlling the diversity of bacteria in the ocean. Consequently, marine microbial biogeography involves more than geographical distances, as it is also dynamically associated with oceanic processes. Our ocean scale study suggests that it is essential to consider the coupling between microbial and physical oceanography to fully understand the diversity and function of marine microbes. The ISME Journal (2010) 4, 564-576; doi:10.1038/ismej.2009.134; published online 10 December 2009	2010	4	10.1038/ismej.2009.134	MAYBE	Dave	
Schauer R; Bienhold C; Ramette A; Harder J	Bacterial diversity and biogeography in deep-sea surface sediments of the South Atlantic Ocean	ISME JOURNAL	Microbial biogeographic patterns in the deep sea depend on the ability of microorganisms to disperse. One possible limitation to microbial dispersal may be the Walvis Ridge that separates the Antarctic Lower Circumpolar Deep Water from the North Atlantic Deep Water. We examined bacterial communities in three basins of the eastern South Atlantic Ocean to determine diversity and biogeography of bacterial communities in deep-sea surface sediments. The analysis of 16S ribosomal RNA (rRNA) gene clone libraries in each basin revealed a high diversity, representing 521 phylotypes with 98% identity in 1051 sequences. Phylotypes affiliated with Gammaproteobacteria, Deltaproteobacteria and Acidobacteria were present in all three basins. The distribution of these shared phylotypes seemed to be influenced neither by the Walvis Ridge nor by different deep water masses, suggesting a high dispersal capability, as also indicated by low distance-decay relationships. However, the total bacterial diversity showed significant differences between the basins, based on 16S rRNA gene sequences as well as on terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism fingerprints. Noticeably, both geographic distance and environmental heterogeneity influenced bacterial diversity at intermediate (10-3000 km) and large scales (43000 km), indicating a complex interplay of local contemporary environmental effects and dispersal limitation. The ISME Journal (2010) 4, 159-170; doi: 10.1038/ismej.2009.106; published online 15 October 2009	2010	4	10.1038/ismej.2009.106	YES	Dave	
Alonso C; Gomez-Pereira P; Ramette A; Ortega L; Fuchs BM; Amann R	Multilevel analysis of the bacterial diversity along the environmental gradient Rio de la Plata-South Atlantic Ocean	AQUATIC MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	The Rio de la Plata is the worlds largest estuary, draining the second largest basin of South America. In spite of its key significance at the local and global scale, this is the first attempt made so far to characterize the bacterial diversity of this system. We employed a suite of molecular methods to analyze the bacterial diversity at different phylogenetic levels, both in terms of richness and evenness, and we related these findings to physicochemical parameters. A clear environmental gradient was observed with 3 distinctive zones (riverine, frontal, and marine). In turn, the bacterial communities appeared highly diverse and strongly structured by the environment. A high number (324) of different operational taxonomic units (OTUs) were identified by automated ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis (ARISA). The ARISA results suggested that the composition of bacterioplankton communities was strongly related to physicochemical water characteristics, and that the bacterioplankton had little overlap with the bacterial assemblage of the sediments. Catalyzed reporter deposition-fluorescence in situ hybridization (CARD-FISH) indicated that Betaproteobacteria and Actinobacteria were more abundant in the riverine zone, whereas Gammaproteobacteria and Planctomycetes preferred the marine waters. The relative abundance of Bacteroidetes peaked in the frontal zone, and Alphaproteobacteria were numerically dominant throughout the estuary. The analysis of about 300 almost full-length 16S rRNA gene sequences pointed to the existence of ubiquitous phylotypes, but also suggested habitat preferences among certain groups. This first look into the bacterial community of the Rio de la Plata demonstrated marked diversity patterns, providing further insights into the ecology of globally distributed groups of aquatic bacteria.	2010	61	10.3354/ame01439	MAYBE	Dave	
Lyons MM; Ward JE; Gaff H; Hicks RE; Drake JM; Dobbs FC	Theory of island biogeography on a microscopic scale: organic aggregates as islands for aquatic pathogens	AQUATIC MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Four predictions of the MacArthur-Wilson theory of island biogeography were evaluated to assess the degree to which detrital-based organic aggregates (e.g. marine snow, organic detritus, and bioflocs) may provide a favorable microhabitat (i.e. an island) for bacteria in general, and specifically aquatic pathogens. We demonstrate the theorys relevance for microbial communities in aquatic environments by describing the community metabolic response and functional diversity of individual organic aggregates while documenting the persistence of potential pathogens and fecal indicator bacteria. Our results support the 4 predictions, including a significant species-area relationship, consistency of species richness at equilibrium, non-zero level of species turnover at equilibrium, and variance to mean ratios of less than 0.5 at equilibrium. The aggregate-associated microbial communities demonstrated significantly higher rates of metabolic response and functional diversity, and contained higher concentrations of culturable vibrios and fecal indicator bacteria compared to aggregate-free water, supporting the idea that organic aggregates are sites of favorable habitat surrounded by a less favorable matrix. These results substantiate that organic aggregates may be represented as microscopic islands. Using island biogeography theory to understand the microbial ecology of aquatic pathogens associated with organic aggregates is important with respect to environmental sampling of recreational waters and mathematical modeling of the transmission of waterborne diseases from aquatic reservoirs to humans.	2010	60	10.3354/ame01417	MAYBE	Dave	
An LZ; Chen Y; Xiang SR; Shang TC; Tian LD	Differences in community composition of bacteria in four glaciers in western China	BIOGEOSCIENCES	Microbial community patterns vary in glaciers worldwide, presenting unique responses to global climatic and environmental changes. Four bacterial clone libraries were established by 16S rRNA gene amplification from four ice layers along the 42-m-long ice core MuztB drilled from the Muztag Ata Glacier. A total of 151 bacterial sequences obtained from the ice core MuztB were phylogenetically compared with the 71 previously reported sequences from three ice cores extracted from ice caps Malan, Dunde, and Puruogangri. Six phylogenetic clusters Flavisolibacter, Flexibacter (Bacteroidetes), Acinetobacter, Enterobacter (Gammaproteobacteria), Planococcus/Anoxybacillus (Firmicutes), and Propionibacter/Luteococcus (Actinobacteria) frequently occurred along the Muztag Ata Glacier profile, and their proportion varied by seasons. Sequence analysis showed that most of the sequences from the ice core clustered with those from cold environments, and the sequence clusters from the same glacier more closely grouped together than those from the geographically isolated glaciers. Moreover, bacterial communities from the same location or similarly aged ice formed a cluster, and were clearly separate from those from other geographically isolated glaciers. In summary, the findings provide preliminary evidence of zonal distribution of microbial community, and suggest biogeography of microorganisms in glacier ice.	2010	7	10.5194/bg-7-1937-2010	MAYBE	Dave	
Yergeau E; Labour K; Hamel C; Vujanovic V; Nakano-Hylander A; Jeannotte R; St-Arnaud M	Patterns of Fusarium community structure and abundance in relation to spatial, abiotic and biotic factors in soil	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Members of the Fusarium genus are important components of many plant-soil systems worldwide and are responsible for many crop diseases. Knowledge of the relative influence of biotic and abiotic factors on this genus is therefore of broad economic and ecological importance. In order to address this issue, we examined Fusarium communities in soils nearby apparently healthy and symptomatic asparagus plants in 50 fields scattered in four agricultural regions of Quebec, Canada. Fusarium community structure and abundance were assessed using genus-specific PCR-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis and CFU counts, respectively. Multivariate statistical analyses were used to detect community patterns related to spatial, abiotic and biotic factors. Results suggested that Fusarium community structure (i.e. the presence and absence of the different Fusarium sequence variants in the samples) in soil is mainly related to biotic factors (arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi and bacterial community structure), whereas Fusarium abundance is more closely related to abiotic factors (mainly clay, organic matter, NH(4), Na and Cu). Some degree of influence of spatial patterns was also observed on both Fusarium community structure and abundance with, for instance, a large regional variation in Fusarium community structure. However, Fusarium community structure was not directly related to the disease status of nearby asparagus plants.	2010	71	10.1111/j.1574-6941.2009.00777.x	YES	Dave	
Galand PE; Casamayor EO; Kirchman DL; Lovejoy C	Ecology of the rare microbial biosphere of the Arctic Ocean	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	Understanding the role of microbes in the oceans has focused on taxa that occur in high abundance; yet most of the marine microbial diversity is largely determined by a long tail of low-abundance taxa. This rare biosphere may have a cosmopolitan distribution because of high dispersal and low loss rates, and possibly represents a source of phylotypes that become abundant when environmental conditions change. However, the true ecological role of rare marine microorganisms is still not known. Here, we use pyrosequencing to describe the structure and composition of the rare biosphere and to test whether it represents cosmopolitan taxa or whether, similar to abundant phylotypes, the rare community has a biogeography. Our examination of 740,353 16S rRNA gene sequences from 32 bacterial and archaeal communities from various locations of the Arctic Ocean showed that rare phylotypes did not have a cosmopolitan distribution but, rather, followed patterns similar to those of the most abundant members of the community and of the entire community. The abundance distributions of rare and abundant phylotypes were different, following a log-series and log-normal model, respectively, and the taxonomic composition of the rare biosphere was similar to the composition of the abundant phylotypes. We conclude that the rare biosphere has a biogeography and that its tremendous diversity is most likely subjected to ecological processes such as selection, speciation, and extinction.	2009	106	10.1073/pnas.0908284106	MAYBE	Dave	
Besemer K; Singer G; Hodl I; Battin TJ	Bacterial Community Composition of Stream Biofilms in Spatially Variable-Flow Environments	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Streams are highly heterogeneous ecosystems, in terms of both geomorphology and hydrodynamics. While flow is recognized to shape the physical architecture of benthic biofilms, we do not yet understand what drives community assembly and biodiversity of benthic biofilms in the heterogeneous flow landscapes of streams. Within a metacommunity ecology framework, we experimented with streambed landscapes constructed from bedforms in large-scale flumes to illuminate the role of spatial flow heterogeneity in biofilm community composition and biodiversity in streams. Our results show that the spatial variation of hydrodynamics explained a remarkable percentage (up to 47%) of the variation in community composition along bedforms. This suggests species sorting as a model of metacommunity dynamics in stream biofilms, though natural biofilm communities will clearly not conform to a single model offered by metacommunity ecology. The spatial variation induced by the hydrodynamics along the bedforms resulted in a gradient of bacterial beta diversity, measured by a range of diversity and similarity indices, that increased with bedform height and hence with spatial flow heterogeneity at the flume level. Our results underscore the necessity to maintain small-scale physical heterogeneity for community composition and biodiversity of biofilms in stream ecosystems.	2009	75	10.1128/AEM.01284-09	MAYBE	Dave	
Kumaresan D; Abell GCJ; Bodrossy L; Stralis-Pavese N; Murrell JC	Spatial and temporal diversity of methanotrophs in a landfill cover soil are differentially related to soil abiotic factors	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY REPORTS	P>Methanotrophs present in landfill cover soil can limit methane emissions from landfill sites by oxidizing methane produced in landfill. Understanding the spatial and temporal distribution of populations of methanotrophs and the factors influencing their activity and diversity in landfill cover soil is critical to devise better landfill cover soil management strategies. pmoA-based microarray analyses of methanotroph community structure revealed a temporal shift in methanotroph populations across different seasons. Type II methanotrophs (particularly Methylocystis sp.) were found to be present across all seasons. Minor shifts in type I methanotroph populations were observed. In the case of spatial distribution, only minor differences in methanotroph community structure were observed with no recognizable patterns (both vertical and horizontal) at a 5 m scale. Correlation analysis between soil abiotic parameters (total C, N, NH(4)+, NO(3)- and water content) and distribution of methanotrophs revealed a lack of conclusive evidence for any distinct correlation pattern between measured abiotic parameters and methanotroph community structure, suggesting that complex interactions of several physico-chemical parameters shape methanotroph diversity and activity in landfill cover soils.	2009	1	10.1111/j.1758-2229.2009.00059.x	MAYBE	Dave	
Pagaling E; Wang HZ; Venables M; Wallace A; Grant WD; Cowan DA; Jones BE; Ma YH; Ventosa A; Heaphy S	Microbial Biogeography of Six Salt Lakes in Inner Mongolia, China, and a Salt Lake in Argentina	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	We used cultivation-independent methods to investigate the prokaryotic biogeography of the water column in six salt lakes in Inner Mongolia, China, and a salt lake in Argentina. These lakes had different salt compositions and pH values and were at variable geographic distances, on both local and intercontinental scales, which allowed us to explore the microbial community composition within the context of both contemporary environmental conditions and geographic distance. Fourteen 16S rRNA gene clone libraries were constructed, and over 200 16S rRNA gene sequences were obtained. These sequences were used to construct biotic similarity matrices, which were used in combination with environmental similarity matrices and a distance matrix in the Mantel test to discover which factors significantly influenced biotic similarity. We showed that archaeal biogeography was influenced by contemporary environmental factors alone (Na(+), CO(3)(2-), and HCO(3)(-) ion concentrations; pH; and temperature). Bacterial biogeography was influenced both by contemporary environmental factors (Na(+), Mg(2+), and HCO(3+) ion concentrations and pH) and by geographic distance.	2009	75	10.1128/AEM.00040-09	YES	Dave	
Humbert JF; Dorigo U; Cecchi P; Le Berre B; Debroas D; Bouvy M	Comparison of the structure and composition of bacterial communities from temperate and tropical freshwater ecosystems	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	P>We used a partial 16S rRNA sequencing approach to compare the structure and composition of the bacterial communities in three large, deep subalpine lakes in France with those of communities in six shallow tropical reservoirs in Burkina Faso. Despite the very different characteristics of these ecosystems, we found that their bacterial communities share the same composition in regard to the relative proportions of the different phyla, suggesting that freshwater environmental conditions lead to convergence in this composition. In the same way, we found no significant difference in the richness and diversity of the bacterial communities in France and Burkina Faso. We defined core and satellite operational taxonomic units (OTUs) (sequences sharing at least 98% identity) on the basis of their abundance and their geographical distribution. The core OTUs were found either ubiquitously or only in temperate or tropical and subtropical areas, and they contained more than 70% of all the sequences retrieved in this study. In contrast, satellite OTUs were characterized by having a more restricted geographical distribution and by lower abundance. Finally, the bacterial community composition of these freshwater ecosystems in France and Burkina Faso was markedly different, showing that the history of these ecosystems and regional environmental parameters have a greater impact on the relative abundances of the different OTUs in each bacterial community than the local environmental conditions.	2009	11	10.1111/j.1462-2920.2009.01960.x	MAYBE	Dave	
Yang J; Zhang WJ; Shen YF	Relationships between Testate Amoebae Assemblages (Protozoa) and Geographic Factors in Yunnan Plateau Lakes, China	JOURNAL OF FRESHWATER ECOLOGY	Knowledge of the effect of geographic factors on the assemblages of protozoan testate amoebae is still limited, despite there having been a number of studies on this fauna. We applied statistical analyses to data on the distribution of testate amoebae from nine major lakes in the Yunnan Plateau, southwest China. Cluster analysis, based on community structure, separated the lakes into two groups - the oligotrophic/mesotrophic lakes and the hypercutrophic lakes - confirming the idea that the testate amoebae assemblages in lakes are closely related to the trophic status. Additionally, within the oligotrophic/mesotrophic lakes, there was distinct geographic clustering. Linear regression analysis and the Mantel test both revealed that similarity of species composition decreased with increasing geographic distance among the oligotrophic/mesotrophic lakes.	2009	24	10.1080/02705060.2009.9664316	YES	Dave	
Lauber CL; Hamady M; Knight R; Fierer N	Pyrosequencing-Based Assessment of Soil pH as a Predictor of Soil Bacterial Community Structure at the Continental Scale	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Soils harbor enormously diverse bacterial populations, and soil bacterial communities can vary greatly in composition across space. However, our understanding of the specific changes in soil bacterial community structure that occur across larger spatial scales is limited because most previous work has focused on either surveying a relatively small number of soils in detail or analyzing a larger number of soils with techniques that provide little detail about the phylogenetic structure of the bacterial communities. Here we used a bar-coded pyrosequencing technique to characterize bacterial communities in 88 soils from across North and South America, obtaining an average of 1,501 sequences per soil. We found that overall bacterial community composition, as measured by pairwise UniFrac distances, was significantly correlated with differences in soil pH (r = 0.79), largely driven by changes in the relative abundances of Acidobacteria, Actinobacteria, and Bacteroidetes across the range of soil pHs. In addition, soil pH explains a significant portion of the variability associated with observed changes in the phylogenetic structure within each dominant lineage. The overall phylogenetic diversity of the bacterial communities was also correlated with soil pH (R-2 = 0.50), with peak diversity in soils with near-neutral pHs. Together, these results suggest that the structure of soil bacterial communities is predictable, to some degree, across larger spatial scales, and the effect of soil pH on bacterial community composition is evident at even relatively coarse levels of taxonomic resolution.	2009	75	10.1128/AEM.00335-09	YES	Dave	
Dequiedt S; Thioulouse J; Jolivet C; Saby NPA; Lelievre M; Maron PA; Martin MP; Prevost-Boure NC; Toutain B; Arrouays D; Lemanceau P; Ranjard L	Biogeographical patterns of soil bacterial communities	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY REPORTS	This study provides the first maps of variations in bacterial community structure on a broad scale based on genotyping of DNA extracts from 593 soils from four different regions of France (North, Brittany, South-East and Landes). Soils were obtained from the soil library of RMQS (Reseau de Mesures de la Qualite des Sols = French soil quality monitoring network). The relevance of a biogeographic approach for studying bacterial communities was demonstrated by the great variability in community structure and specific geographical patterns within and between the four regions. The data indicated that the distribution of bacterial community composition might be more related to local factors such as soil type and land cover than to more global factors such as climatic and geomorphologic characteristics. Furthermore, the regional pools of biodiversity could be ordered: South-East >= North > Brittany > Landes, according to the observed regional variability of the bacterial communities, which could be helpful for improving land use in accordance with soil biodiversity management.	2009	1	10.1111/j.1758-2229.2009.00040.x	MAYBE	Dave	
Bowen JL; Crump BC; Deegan LA; Hobbie JE	Salt marsh sediment bacteria: their distribution and response to external nutrient inputs	ISME JOURNAL	A primary focus among microbial ecologists in recent years has been to understand controls on the distribution of microorganisms in various habitats. Much less attention has been paid to the way that environmental disturbance interacts with processes that regulate bacterial community composition. We determined how human disturbance affected the distribution and community structure of salt marsh sediment bacteria by using denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis of 16S rRNA in five different habitats in each of four salt marshes located in northeastern Massachusetts, USA. Two of the four marsh creeks were experimentally enriched 15 x above background by the addition of nitrogen and phosphorus fertilizers for two or more growing seasons. Our results indicate that extrinsic factors acting at broad scales do not influence the distribution of salt marsh sediment bacteria. Intrinsic factors, controlled by local-scale environmental heterogeneity, do play a role in structuring these sediment microbial communities, although nutrient enrichment did not have a consequential effect on the microbial community in most marsh habitats. Only in one habitat, a region of the marsh creek wall that is heavily colonized by filamentous algae, did we see any effect of fertilization on the microbial community structure. When similar habitats were compared among marshes, there was considerable convergence in the microbial community composition during the growing season. Environmental factors that correlated best with microbial community composition varied with habitat, suggesting that habitat-specific intrinsic forces are primarily responsible for maintaining microbial diversity in salt marsh sediments. The ISME Journal (2009) 3, 924-934; doi: 10.1038/ismej.2009.44; published online 7 May 2009	2009	3	10.1038/ismej.2009.44	MAYBE	Dave	
Fierer N; Carney KM; Horner-Devine MC; Megonigal JP	The Biogeography of Ammonia-Oxidizing Bacterial Communities in Soil	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Although ammonia-oxidizing bacteria (AOB) are likely to play a key role in the soil nitrogen cycle, we have only a limited understanding of how the diversity and composition of soil AOB communities change across ecosystem types. We examined 23 soils collected from across North America and used sequence-based analyses to compare the AOB communities in each of the distinct soils. Using 97% 16S rRNA sequence similarity groups, we identified only 24 unique AOB phylotypes across all of the soils sampled. The majority of the sequences collected were in the Nitrosospira lineages (representing 80% of all the sequences collected), and AOB belonging to Nitrosospira cluster 3 were particularly common in our clone libraries and ubiquitous across the soil types. Community composition was highly variable across the collected soils, and similar ecosystem types did not always harbor similar AOB communities. We did not find any significant correlations between AOB community composition and measures of N availability. From the suite of environmental variables measured, we found the strongest correlation between temperature and AOB community composition; soils exposed to similar mean annual temperatures tended to have similar AOB communities. This finding is consistent with previous studies and suggests that temperature selects for specific AOB lineages. Given that distinct AOB taxa are likely to have unique functional attributes, the biogeographical patterns exhibited by soil AOB may be directly relevant to understanding soil nitrogen dynamics under changing environmental conditions.	2009	58	10.1007/s00248-009-9517-9	MAYBE	Dave	
Verleyen E; Vyverman W; Sterken M; Hodgson DA; De Wever A; Juggins S; Van de Vijver B; Jones VJ; Vanormelingen P; Roberts D; Flower R; Kilroy C; Souffreau C; Sabbe K	The importance of dispersal related and local factors in shaping the taxonomic structure of diatom metacommunities	OIKOS	To date, little is known about the relative importance of dispersal related versus local factors in shaping microbial metacommunities. A common criticism regarding existing datasets is that the level of taxonomic resolution might be too coarse to reliably assess microbial community structure and study biogeographical patterns. Moreover, few studies have assessed the importance of geographic distance between habitats, which may influence metacommunity dynamics through its effect on dispersal rates. We applied variation partitioning analyses to 15 separate regional datasets on diatoms found in lakes in Eurasia, Africa and Antarctica. These analyses quantified the relative contributions of dispersal related and local factors in determining patterns of taxonomic turnover at the species and at the genus level. In general, results were similar at both taxonomic levels. Local environmental factors accounted for most of the explained variation (median=21%), whereas dispersal related factors were much less important (median of significant fractions=5.5% variation explained) and failed to significantly explain any variation, independent of the environmental variables, in the majority of the datasets. However, the amount of variation explained by dispersal related factors increased with increasing geographic distance and increasing taxonomic resolution. We extrapolated our regional scale observations to the global scale by combining the regional datasets into a global dataset comprising 1039 freshwater lakes from both hemispheres and spanning a geographic distance of over 19 000 km. At this global scale, taxonomic turnover was lowest in highly connected habitats, once environmental factors were partialled out. In common with many other studies of macro-organisms, these analyses showed that both dispersal related and local variables significantly contribute to the structure of global lacustrine diatom communities.	2009	118	10.1111/j.1600-0706.2009.17575.x	YES	Dave	
Miller SR; Strong AL; Jones KL; Ungerer MC	Bar-Coded Pyrosequencing Reveals Shared Bacterial Community Properties along the Temperature Gradients of Two Alkaline Hot Springs in Yellowstone National Park	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	An understanding of how communities are organized is a fundamental goal of ecology but one which has historically been elusive for microbial systems. We used a bar-coded pyrosequencing approach targeting the V3 region of the bacterial small-subunit rRNA gene to address the factors that structure communities along the thermal gradients of two alkaline hot springs in the Lower Geyser Basin of Yellowstone National Park. The filtered data set included a total of nearly 34,000 sequences from 39 environmental samples. Each was assigned to one of 391 operational taxonomic units (OTUs) identified by their unique V3 sequence signatures. Although the two hot springs differed in their OTU compositions, community resemblance and diversity changed with strikingly similar dynamics along the two outflow channels. Two lines of evidence suggest that these community properties are controlled primarily by environmental temperature. First, community resemblance decayed exponentially with increasing differences in temperature between samples but was only weakly correlated with physical distance. Second, diversity decreased with increasing temperature at the same rate along both gradients but was uncorrelated with other measured environmental variables. This study also provides novel insights into the nature of the ecological interactions among important taxa in these communities. A strong negative association was observed between cyanobacteria and the Chloroflexi, which together accounted for similar to 70% of the sequences sampled. This pattern contradicts the longstanding hypothesis that coadapted lineages of these bacteria maintain tightly cooccurring distributions along these gradients as a result of a producer-consumer relationship. We propose that they instead compete for some limiting resource(s).	2009	75	10.1128/AEM.02792-08	YES	Dave	
Boer SI; Hedtkamp SIC; van Beusekom JEE; Fuhrman JA; Boetius A; Ramette A	Time- and sediment depth-related variations in bacterial diversity and community structure in subtidal sands	ISME JOURNAL	Bacterial community structure and microbial activity were determined together with a large number of contextual environmental parameters over 2 years in subtidal sands of the German Wadden Sea in order to identify the main factors shaping microbial community structure and activity in this habitat. Seasonal changes in temperature were directly reflected in bacterial activities and total community respiration, but could not explain variations in the community structure. Strong sediment depth-related patterns were observed for bacterial abundances, carbon production rates and extracellular enzymatic activities. Bacterial community structure also showed a clear vertical variation with higher operational taxonomic unit (OTU) numbers at 10-15 cm depth than in the top 10 cm, probably because of the decreasing disturbance by hydrodynamic forces with sediment depth. The depth-related variations in bacterial community structure could be attributed to vertical changes in bacterial abundances, chlorophyll a and NO(3)(-), indicating that spatial patterns of microbes are partially environmentally controlled. Time was the most important single factor affecting microbial community structure with an OTU replacement of up to 47% over 2 years and a contribution of 34% to the total variation. A large part of this variation was not related to any environmental parameters, suggesting that temporal variations in bacterial community structure are caused by yet unknown environmental drivers and/or by stochastic events in coastal sand habitats. Principal ecosystem functions such as benthic oxygen consumption and extracellular hydrolysis of organic matter were, however, at a high level at all times, indicating functional redundancy in the microbial communities. The ISME Journal (2009) 3, 780-791; doi: 10.1038/ismej.2009.29; published online 2 April 2009	2009	3	10.1038/ismej.2009.29	MAYBE	Dave	
Galand PE; Casamayor EO; Kirchman DL; Potvin M; Lovejoy C	Unique archaeal assemblages in the Arctic Ocean unveiled by massively parallel tag sequencing	ISME JOURNAL	The Arctic Ocean plays a critical role in controlling nutrient budgets between the Pacific and Atlantic Ocean. Archaea are key players in the nitrogen cycle and in cycling nutrients, but their community composition has been little studied in the Arctic Ocean. Here, we characterize archaeal assemblages from surface and deep Arctic water masses using massively parallel tag sequencing of the V6 region of the 16S rRNA gene. This approach gave a very high coverage of the natural communities, allowing a precise description of archaeal assemblages. This first taxonomic description of archaeal communities by tag sequencing reported so far shows that it is possible to assign an identity below phylum level to most (95%) of the archaeal V6 tags, and shows that tag sequencing is a powerful tool for resolving the diversity and distribution of specific microbes in the environment. Marine group I Crenarchaeota was overall the most abundant group in the Arctic Ocean and comprised between 27% and 63% of all tags. Group III Euryarchaeota were more abundant in deep-water masses and represented the largest archaeal group in the deep Atlantic layer of the central Arctic Ocean. Coastal surface waters, in turn, harbored more group II Euryarchaeota. Moreover, group II sequences that dominated surface waters were different from the group II sequences detected in deep waters, suggesting functional differences in closely related groups. Our results unveiled for the first time an archaeal community dominated by group III Euryarchaeota and show biogeographical traits for marine Arctic Archaea. The ISME Journal (2009) 3, 860-869; doi: 10.1038/ismej.2009.23; published online 26 March 2009	2009	3	10.1038/ismej.2009.23	MAYBE	Dave	
Nelson CE; Sadro S; Melack JM	Contrasting the influences of stream inputs and landscape position on bacterioplankton community structure and dissolved organic matter composition in high- elevation lake chains	LIMNOLOGY AND OCEANOGRAPHY	We examined bacterioplankton community composition (BCC; using polymerase chain reaction-based phylogenetic fingerprinting) and the composition of dissolved organic matter (DOM; using scanning fluorometry) within lake chains in high-elevation catchments of the Sierra Nevada, California. We compared temporal BCC dynamics in two connected cirque lakes and their inlets and found that lake : inlet community similarity of both lakes declined with increasing residence time because of seasonal snowpack melting. However, for over 3 yr the headwater lake remained distinct from its inlet even during peak snowmelt (residence time < 5 d), whereas the downstream lake was consistently similar to both its inlet and the upstream lake. We subsequently sampled 17 lake chains (4-8 lakes each) throughout the Sierra Nevada longitudinally to examine how landscape position and catchment characteristics influenced the similarity in BCC and DOM among lakes and their connecting streams. Headwater lakes were significantly less similar to their inlet streams than were downstream lakes. BCC was heterogeneous throughout each catchment, but headwater inlet BCC was consistently distinct from all downstream samples. In contrast, DOM exhibited a trend of increasing homogeneity as water moved downstream: upstream and downstream waters were distinct but without clear headwater outliers. The similarity in BCC and DOM between any two lakes within a chain declined with geographic distance. Our results illustrate the contrasting roles of environmental selection and dispersal in structuring bacterioplankton communities, supporting both strong within-lake environmental selection for communities distinct from terrigenous inputs and a weaker effect of geographic dispersal differentiating communities among lakes linked by advective flow.	2009	54	10.4319/lo.2009.54.4.1292	YES	Dave	
Philippot L; Cuhel J; Saby NPA; Cheneby D; Chronakova A; Bru D; Arrouays D; Martin-Laurent F; Simek M	Mapping field-scale spatial patterns of size and activity of the denitrifier community	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	There is ample evidence that microbial processes can exhibit large variations in activity on a field scale. However, very little is known about the spatial distribution of the microbial communities mediating these processes. Here we used geostatistical modelling to explore spatial patterns of size and activity of the denitrifying community, a functional guild involved in N-cycling, in a grassland field subjected to different cattle grazing regimes. We observed a non-random distribution pattern of the size of the denitrifier community estimated by quantification of the denitrification genes copy numbers with a macro-scale spatial dependence (6-16 m) and mapped the distribution of this functional guild in the field. The spatial patterns of soil properties, which were strongly affected by presence of cattle, imposed significant control on potential denitrification activity, potential N(2)O production and relative abundance of some denitrification genes but not on the size of the denitrifier community. Absolute abundance of most denitrification genes was not correlated with the distribution patterns of potential denitrification activity or potential N(2)O production. However, the relative abundance of bacteria possessing the nosZ gene encoding the N(2)O reductase in the total bacterial community was a strong predictor of the N(2)O/(N(2) + N(2)O) ratio, which provides evidence for a relationship between bacterial community composition based on the relative abundance of denitrifiers in the total bacterial community and ecosystem processes. More generally, the presented geostatistical approach allows integrated mapping of microbial communities, and hence can facilitate our understanding of relationships between the ecology of microbial communities and microbial processes along environmental gradients.	2009	11	10.1111/j.1462-2920.2009.01879.x	MAYBE	Dave	
Dale OR; Tobias CR; Song BK	Biogeographical distribution of diverse anaerobic ammonium oxidizing (anammox) bacteria in Cape Fear River Estuary	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Anaerobic ammonium oxidation (anammox) specific PCR method was developed to examine diversity and distribution of anammox bacteria in sediments collected from three different sites at Cape Fear River Estuary, North Carolina, where environmental parameters vary greatly over the year. Abundance and activities of anammox bacteria in these sediments were measured using the quantitative PCR (Q-PCR) method and (15)N isotope tracer incubations. Different anammox bacterial communities composed with Brocadia, Kuenenia, Jettenia or Scalindua were found among sites along the estuarine gradient. Seasonal variations of anammox community structures were observed along the estuary based on terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) analysis of 16S rRNA genes. Correlation analysis suggested that salinity variation influenced the diversity and distribution of different anammox bacteria in the estuary. Q-PCR assays of anammox bacteria showed temporal and spatial variations of their abundances, which were highly correlated to salinity variation. (15)N isotope tracer incubations measured different anammox rates and its per cent contribution to total N(2) production among sites. The highest anammox rate was found at the site where Scalindua organisms dominated with the highest anammox bacterial abundance. Thus, we demonstrated a biogeographical distribution of diverse anammox bacteria influenced by salinity, and provide evidence to link anammox abundance and activities in estuarine sediments.	2009	11	10.1111/j.1462-2920.2008.01850.x	MAYBE	Dave	
Sommaruga R; Casamayor EO	Bacterial cosmopolitanism and importance of local environmental factors for community composition in remote high-altitude lakes	FRESHWATER BIOLOGY	1. In October 2004, plankton samples were collected from six permanent lakes located between 4960 and 5440 m a.s.l. in the Mount Everest region (Nepal) to assess how spatial and local environmental factors affect natural bacterial community composition. Fingerprinting analysis of the bacterial 16S rRNA gene fragment was done by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE). 2. The number of DGGE bands (range: 12-23) was not correlated with lake area or remoteness, but there was a strong negative correlation with the ratio of catchment to lake area (r = -0.826, P < 0.05), suggesting that hydraulic retention time affects the establishment of the bacterial community in these seepage lakes. 3. Most dominant sequences belonged to Betaproteobacteria except in two lakes where members of Bacteroidetes made the largest relative contribution. Up to 81% of the phylotypes had high similarity (> 98 to 100%) in partial 16S rRNA gene sequence to those reported from other alpine lakes and glaciers around the world, suggesting the presence of cosmopolitan bacteria. 4. An analysis based on dissimilarity matrices and the Mantel test revealed the existence of dissimilarities in bacterial community composition related to geographical distance over a small spatial scale (< 6 km), but determined by local environmental constraints. 5. Our results suggest that several bacterial phylotypes are ubiquitous in the freshwater aquatic realm, but taxon sorting by local environmental constraints is important.	2009	54	10.1111/j.1365-2427.2008.02146.x	YES	Dave	
Jones SE; McMahon KD	Species-sorting may explain an apparent minimal effect of immigration on freshwater bacterial community dynamics	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Long distance atmospheric transport of bacterial cells is often implied as a driver of the apparent cosmopolitan distribution of bacterial taxa. Surprisingly, efforts to measure immigration in bacterial communities are rare. An 8-week time series of within-lake bacterial community composition and atmospheric deposition rates and composition were used to estimate the influence of immigration on bacterial community dynamics in two north temperate lakes. Characterization of bacterial community dynamics using automated ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis suggested moderate overlap in composition between the lakes and atmospherically deposited cells. However, taxa that appeared to be delivered by atmospheric deposition had a relatively minor influence on lake bacterial community dynamics. The weak influence of immigrating bacterial taxa suggests that a species-sorting concept best describes aquatic bacterial metacommunity dynamics.	2009	11	10.1111/j.1462-2920.2008.01814.x	MAYBE	Dave	
Jones RT; Robeson MS; Lauber CL; Hamady M; Knight R; Fierer N	A comprehensive survey of soil acidobacterial diversity using pyrosequencing and clone library analyses	ISME JOURNAL	Acidobacteria are ubiquitous and abundant members of soil bacterial communities. However, an ecological understanding of this important phylum has remained elusive because its members have been difficult to culture and few molecular investigations have focused exclusively on this group. We generated an unprecedented number of acidobacterial DNA sequence data using pyrosequencing and clone libraries (39707 and 1787 sequences, respectively) to characterize the relative abundance, diversity and composition of acidobacterial communities across a range of soil types. To gain insight into the ecological characteristics of acidobacterial taxa, we investigated the large-scale biogeographic patterns exhibited by acidobacterial communities, and related soil and site characteristics to acidobacterial community assemblage patterns. The 87 soils analyzed by pyrosequencing contained more than 8600 unique acidobacterial phylotypes (at the 97% sequence similarity level). One phylotype belonging to Acidobacteria subgroup 1, but not closely related to any cultured representatives, was particularly abundant, accounting for 7.4% of bacterial sequences and 17.6% of acidobacterial sequences, on average, across the soils. The abundance of Acidobacteria relative to other bacterial taxa was highly variable across the soils examined, but correlated strongly with soil pH (R= -0.80, P < 0.001). Soil pH was also the best predictor of acidobacterial community composition, regardless of how the communities were characterized, and the relative abundances of the dominant Acidobacteria subgroups were readily predictable. Acidobacterial communities were more phylogenetically clustered as soil pH departed from neutrality, suggesting that pH is an effective habitat filter, restricting community membership to progressively more narrowly defined lineages as pH deviates from neutrality.	2009	3	10.1038/ismej.2008.127	MAYBE	Dave	
Li LY; Huang QJ; Wu SH; Lin D; Chen JH; Chen YQ	The spatial and temporal distribution of microalgae in the South China Sea: evidence from GIS-based analysis of 18S rDNA sequences	SCIENCE IN CHINA SERIES C-LIFE SCIENCES	The purpose of this study was to estimate the spatial and temporal variation of microalgae in the South China Sea and to demonstrate the environmental factors controlling the diversity of microalgae by GIS (geographic information system)-based analysis of 18S rDNA sequences. Six 18S rDNA libraries were constructed from environmental samples collected at different sites in the study area, and more than 600 18S rDNA sequences were determined. The rDNA sequence data were then analyzed by DIVA-GIS software to display the spatial and temporal variation of phytoplanktons composition. It was shown that the autotrophic eukaryotic plankton dominated over the heterotrophic cells in most of our clone libraries, and the dominating phytoplankton was Dinophyceae except for Bacillariophyta at the Xiamen harbor. The percentages of these two groups were controlled by water temperature and salinity. Our results also revealed that the species composition of Chlorophyta showed a close relationship with latitude, changing from Prasinophyceae at the high latitude to Trebouxiophyceae at the low latitude. Several newly classified picoplankton lineages were first uncovered in the South China Sea, including the pico-sized green alga Ostreococcus sp. and Picochlorum eukaryotum, and picobiliphytes, which was just discovered in 2007 with unknown affinities to other eukaryotes. Their spatial and temporal variation were also analyzed and discussed.	2008	51	10.1007/s11427-008-0140-7	MAYBE	Dave	
Fulthorpe RR; Roesch LFW; Riva A; Triplett EW	Distantly sampled soils carry few species in common	ISME JOURNAL	The bacterial phylogenetic structure of soils from four distinctly different sites in South and North America was analyzed. One hundred and thirty-nine thousand sequences of the V9 region of the small subunit of the bacterial ribosomal RNA gene generated for a previous study were used for this work. Whereas the previous work estimated levels of species richness, this study details the degree of bacterial community overlap between the four soils. Sequences from the four soils were classified and grouped into different phyla and then assigned to operational taxonomic units (OTUs) as defined by 97 or 100% sequence similarity. Pairwise Jaccard and h similarity indices averaged over all phyla equalled 6 and 12% respectively at the 97% similarity level, and 15% for both at the 100% similarity level. At 100 and 97% sequence similarity, 1.5 and 4.1% of OTUs were found in all four soils respectively, and 87.9 and 74.4%, respectively were a unique particular soil. These analyses, based on the largest soil bacterial sequence retrieval to date, establish the high degree of community structure difference for randomly sampled dissimilar soils and support the idea that wide sampling is important for bioprospecting. The 10 most abundant cultured genera were determined in each soil. These 10 genera comprised a significant proportion of the reads obtained from each soil (31.3-37.4%). Chitinophaga was the most abundant or the second most abundant genus in all four soils with 7.5-13.8% of the total bacterial sequences in these soils. The striking result is that several culturable genera, whose roles in soil are virtually unknown, were found among these dominant sequences.	2008	2	10.1038/ismej.2008.55	YES	Dave	
Lauber CL; Strickland MS; Bradford MA; Fierer N	The influence of soil properties on the structure of bacterial and fungal communities across land-use types	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	Land-use change can have significant impacts on soil conditions and microbial communities are likely to respond to these changes. However, such responses are poorly characterized as few studies have examined how specific changes in edaphic characteristics do, or do not, influence the composition of soil bacterial and fungal communities across land-use types. Soil samples were collected from four replicated (n = 3) land-use types (hardwood and pine forests, cultivated and livestock pasture lands) in the southeastern US to assess the effects of land-use change on microbial community structure and distribution. We used quantitative PCR to estimate bacterial-fungal ratios and clone libraries targeting small-subunit rRNA genes to independently characterize the bacterial and fungal communities. Although some soil properties (soil texture and nutrient status) did significantly differ across land-use types, other edaphic factors (e.g., pH) did not vary consistently with land-use. Bacterial-fungal ratios were not significantly different across the land-uses and distinct land-use types did not necessarily harbor distinct soil fungal or bacterial communities. Rather, the composition of bacterial and fungal communities was most strongly correlated with specific soil properties. Soil pH was the best predictor of bacterial community composition across this landscape while fungal community composition was most closely associated with changes in soil nutrient status. Together these results suggest that specific changes in edaphic properties, not necessarily land-use type itself, may best predict shifts in microbial community composition across a given landscape. In addition, our results demonstrate the utility of using sequence-based approaches to concurrently analyze bacterial and fungal communities as such analyses provide detailed phylogenetic information on individual communities and permit the robust assessment of the biogeographical patterns exhibited by soil microbial communities. (C) 2008 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2008	40	10.1016/j.soilbio.2008.05.021	MAYBE	Dave	
Bryant JA; Lamanna C; Morlon H; Kerkhoff AJ; Enquist BJ; Green JL	Microbes on mountainsides: Contrasting elevational patterns of bacterial and plant diversity	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	The study of elevational diversity gradients dates back to the foundation of biogeography. Although elevational patterns of plant and animal diversity have been studied for centuries, such patterns have not been reported for microorganisms and remain poorly understood. Here, in an effort to assess the generality of elevational diversity patterns, we examined soil bacterial and plant diversity along an elevation gradient. To gain insight into the forces that structure these patterns, we adopted a multifaceted approach to incorporate information about the structure, diversity, and spatial turnover of montane communities in a phylogenetic context. We found that observed patterns of plant and bacterial diversity were fundamentally different. While bacterial taxon richness and phylogenetic diversity decreased monotonically from the lowest to highest elevations, plants followed a unimodal pattern, with a peak in richness and phylogenetic diversity at mid-elevations. At all elevations bacterial communities had a tendency to be phylogenetically clustered, containing closely related taxa. In contrast, plant communities did not exhibit a uniform phylogenetic structure across the gradient: they became more overdispersed with increasing elevation, containing distantly related taxa. Finally, a metric of phylogenetic beta-diversity showed that bacterial lineages were not randomly distributed, but rather exhibited significant spatial structure across the gradient, whereas plant lineages did not exhibit a significant phylogenetic signal. Quantifying the influence of sample scale in intertaxonomic comparisons remains a challenge. Nevertheless, our findings suggest that the forces structuring microorganism and macroorganism communities along elevational gradients differ.	2008	105	10.1073/pnas.0801920105	YES	Dave	
Meyer B; Kuever J	Phylogenetic diversity and spatial distribution of the microbial community associated with the Caribbean deep-water sponge Polymastia cf. corticata by 16S rRNA, aprA, and amoA gene analysis	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE)-based analyses of 16S rRNA, aprA, and amoA genes demonstrated that a phylogenetically diverse and complex microbial community was associated with the Caribbean deep-water sponge Polymastia cf. corticata Ridley and Dendy, 1887. From the 38 archaeal and bacterial 16S rRNA phylotypes identified, 53% branched into the sponge-specific, monophyletic sequence clusters determined by previous studies (considering predominantly shallow-water sponge species), whereas 26% appeared to be P. cf. corticata specifically associated microorganisms (specialists); 21% of the phylotypes were confirmed to represent seawater- and sediment-derived proteobacterial species (contaminants) acquired by filtration processes from the host environment. Consistently, the aprA and amoA gene-based analyses indicated the presence of environmentally derived sulfur- and ammonia-oxidizers besides putative sponge-specific sulfur-oxidizing Gammaproteobacteria and Alphaproteobacteria and a sulfate-reducing archaeon. A sponge-specific, endosymbiotic sulfur cycle as described for marine oligochaetes is proposed to be also present in P. cf. corticata. Overall, the results of this work support the recent studies that demonstrated the sponge species specificity of the associated microbial community while the biogeography of the host collection site has only a minor influence on the composition. In P. cf. corticata, the specificity of the sponge-microbe associations is even extended to the spatial distribution of the microorganisms within the sponge body; distinct bacterial populations were associated with the different tissue sections, papillae, outer and inner cortex, and choanosome. The local distribution of a phylotype within P. cf. corticata correlated with its (1) phylogenetic affiliation, (2) classification as sponge-specific or nonspecifically associated microorganism, and (3) potential ecological role in the host sponge.	2008	56	10.1007/s00248-007-9348-5	MAYBE	Dave	
Winter C; Moeseneder MM; Herndl GJ; Weinbauer MG	Relationship of geographic distance, depth, temperature, and viruses with prokaryotic communities in the eastern tropical Atlantic Ocean	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	The richness and biogeographical distribution pattern of bacterial and archaeal communities was assessed by terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis of polymerase chain reaction-amplified fragments of the 16S rRNA gene at the surface (15-25 m depth), in the deep chlorophyll maximum layer (DCM; 50 m depth), and deep waters (75-1000 m depth) of the eastern tropical Atlantic Ocean. Additionally, prokaryotic and viral abundance and the frequency of infected prokaryotic cells (FIC) were determined along with physico-chemical parameters to identify factors influencing prokaryotic richness and biogeography. Viral abundance was highest in the DCM layer averaging 45.5x10(6) ml(-1), whereas in the mixed surface layer and in the waters below the DCM, average viral abundance was 11.3x10(6) and 4.3x10(6) ml(-1), respectively. The average estimate of FIC was 8.3% in the mixed surface layer and the DCM and 2.4% in deeper waters. FIC was positively related to prokaryotic and viral abundance and negatively to archaeal richness. There was no detectable effect of geographic distance (maximum distance between stations similar to 4600 km) or differences between water masses on bacterial and archaeal community composition. Bacterial communities showed a clear depth zonation, whereas changes in archaeal community composition were related to temperature and FIC. The results indicate that planktonic archaeal virus host systems are a dynamic component of marine ecosystems under natural conditions.	2008	56	10.1007/s00248-007-9343-x	YES	Dave	
Takacs-Vesbach C; Mitchell K; Jackson-Weaver O; Reysenbach AL	Volcanic calderas delineate biogeographic provinces among Yellowstone thermophiles	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	It has been suggested that the distribution of microorganisms should be cosmopolitan because of their enormous capacity for dispersal. However, recent studies have revealed that geographically isolated microbial populations do exist. Geographic distance as a barrier to dispersal is most often invoked to explain these distributions. Here we show that unique and diverse sequences of the bacterial genus Sulfurihydrogenibium exist in Yellowstone thermal springs, indicating that these sites are geographically isolated. Although there was no correlation with geographic distance or the associated geochemistry of the springs, there was a strong historical signal. We found that the Yellowstone calderas, remnants of prehistoric volcanic eruptions, delineate biogeographical provinces for the Sulfurihydrogenibium within Yellowstone (chi(2): 9.7, P = 0.002). The pattern of distribution that we have detected suggests that major geological events in the past 2 million years explain more of the variation in sequence diversity in this system than do contemporary factors such as habitat or geographic distance. These findings highlight the importance of historical legacies in determining contemporary microbial distributions and suggest that the same factors that determine the biogeography of macroorganisms are also evident among bacteria.	2008	10	10.1111/j.1462-2920.2008.01584.x	YES	Dave	
Niederberger TD; McDonald IR; Hacker AL; Soo RM; Barrett JE; Wall DH; Cary SC	Microbial community composition in soils of Northern Victoria Land, Antarctica	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Biotic communities and ecosystem dynamics in terrestrial Antarctica are limited by an array of extreme conditions including low temperatures, moisture and organic matter availability, high salinity, and a paucity of biodiversity to facilitate key ecological processes. Recent studies have discovered that the prokaryotic communities in these extreme systems are highly diverse with patchy distributions. Investigating the physical and biological controls over the distribution and activity of microbial biodiversity in Victoria Land is essential to understanding ecological functioning in this region. Currently, little information on the distribution, structure and activity of soil communities anywhere in Victoria Land are available, and their sensitivity to potential climate change remains largely unknown. We investigated soil microbial communities from low- and high-productivity habitats in an isolated Antarctic location to determine how the soil environment impacts microbial community composition and structure. The microbial communities in Luther Vale, Northern Victoria Land were analysed using bacterial 16S rRNA gene clone libraries and were related to soil geochemical parameters and classical morphological analysis of soil metazoan invertebrate communities. A total of 323 16S rRNA gene sequences analysed from four soils spanning a productivity gradient indicated a high diversity (Shannon-Weaver values > 3) of phylotypes within the clone libraries and distinct differences in community structure between the two soil productivity habitats linked to water and nutrient availability. In particular, members of the Deinococcus/Thermus lineage were found exclusively in the drier, low-productivity soils, while Gammaproteobacteria of the genus Xanthomonas were found exclusively in high-productivity soils. However, rarefaction curves indicated that these microbial habitats remain under-sampled. Our results add to the recent literature suggesting that there is a higher biodiversity within Antarctic soils than previously expected.	2008	10	10.1111/j.1462-2920.2008.01593.x	MAYBE	Dave	
Fontaneto D; Barraclough TG; Chen K; Ricci C; Herniou EA	Molecular evidence for broad-scale distributions in bdelloid rotifers: everything is not everywhere but most things are very widespread	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	The Baas-Beckings hypothesis, also known by the term everything is everywhere (EisE), states that microscopic organisms such as bacteria and protists are globally distributed and do not show biogeographical patterns, due to their high dispersal potential. We tested the prediction of the EisE hypothesis on bdelloid rotifers, microscopic animals similar to protists in size and ecology that present one of the best cases among animals for the plausibility of global dispersal. Geographical range sizes and patterns of isolation by distance were estimated for global collections of the genera Adineta and Rotaria, using different taxonomic units: (i) traditional species based on morphology, (ii) the most inclusive monophyletic lineages from a cytochrome oxidase I phylogeny comprising just a single traditional species, and (iii) genetic clusters indicative of independently evolving lineages. Although there are cases of truly cosmopolitan distribution, even at the most finely resolved taxonomic level, most genetic clusters are distributed at continental or lower scales. Nevertheless, although everything is not everywhere, bdelloid rotifers do display broad distributions typical of those of other microscopic organisms. Broad dispersal and large population sizes might be factors lessening the evolutionary cost of long-term abstinence from sexual reproduction in this famous group of obligate parthenogens.	2008	17	10.1111/j.1365-294X.2008.03806.x	YES	Dave	
Zhou JZ; Kang S; Schadt CW; Garten CT	Spatial scaling of functional gene diversity across various microbial taxa	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	Understanding the spatial patterns of organisms and the underlying mechanisms shaping biotic communities is a central goal in community ecology. One of the most well documented spatial patterns in plant and animal communities is the positive-power law relationship between species (or taxa) richness and area. Such taxa-area relationships (TARS) are one of the principal generalizations in ecology, and are fundamental to our understanding of the distribution of global biodiversity. However, TARS remain elusive in microbial communities, especially in soil habitats, because of inadequate sampling methodologies. Here, we describe TARs as gene-area relationships (GARs), at a whole-community level, across various microbial functional and phylogenetic groups in a forest soil, using a comprehensive functional gene array with > 24,000 probes. Our analysis indicated that the forest soil microbial community exhibited a relatively flat gene-area relationship (slope z = 0.0624), but the z values varied considerably across different functional and phylogenetic groups (z = 0.0475-0.0959). However, the z values are several times lower than those commonly observed in plants and animals. These results suggest that the turnover in space of microorganisms may be, in general, lower than that of plants and animals.	2008	105	10.1073/pnas.0709016105	MAYBE	Dave	
Fuhrman JA; Steele JA; Hewson I; Schwalbach MS; Brown MV; Green JL; Brown JH	A latitudinal diversity gradient in planktonic marine bacteria	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	For two centuries, biologists have documented a gradient of animal and plant biodiversity from the tropics to the poles but have been unable to agree whether it is controlled primarily by productivity, temperature, or historical factors. Recent reports that find latitudinal diversity gradients to be reduced or absent in some unicellular organisms and attribute this to their high abundance and dispersal capabilities would suggest that bacteria, the smallest and most abundant organisms, should exhibit no latitudinal pattern of diversity. We used amplified ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis (ARISA) whole-assemblage genetic fingerprinting to quantify species richness in 103 near-surface samples of marine bacterial plankton, taken from tropical to polar in both hemispheres. We found a significant latitudinal gradient in richness. The data can help to evaluate hypotheses about the cause of the gradient. The correlations of richness with latitude and temperature were similarly strong, whereas correlations with parameters relating to productivity (chlorophyll, annual primary productivity, bacterial abundance) and other variables (salinity and distance to shore) were much weaker. Despite the high abundance and potentially high dispersal of bacteria, they exhibit geographic patterns of species diversity that are similar to those seen in other organisms. The latitudinal gradient in marine bacteria supports the hypothesis that the kinetics of metabolism, setting the pace for life, has strong influence on diversity.	2008	105	10.1073/pnas.0803070105	YES	Dave	
Miletto M; Loy A; Antheunisse AM; Loeb R; Bodelier PLE; Laanbroek HJ	Biogeography of sulfate-reducing prokaryotes in river floodplains	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	In this study, a large-scale field survey was conducted to describe the biogeography of sulfate-reducing prokaryotes (SRPs) in river floodplains. Fingerprints obtained with three methods, i.e. 16S rRNA gene-based oligonucleotide microarray, dsrB-based denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) and polar lipid-derived fatty acid (PLFA) analyses, were used as a proxy to describe the SRPs community diversity. Each set of profiles was subjected to a combined multivariate/correlation analysis in order to compare SRP community profiles and to highlight the environmental variables influencing the SRPs distribution along environmental gradients. Floodplain soils harbored distinct SRP communities displaying biogeographic patterns. Nearly all profiles from the tidal sites consistently separated from the nontidal sites, independently from the screening method and the multivariate statistics used. The distribution of the microarray/DGGE/PLFA-based fingerprints in the principal component plots could be correlated to eight soil variables, i.e. soil organic matter, total nitrogen, total phosphorous and total potassium, and extractable ammonium, nitrate, phosphate and sulfate, as well as seven pore water variables, i.e. phosphate, sulfate, sulfide, chloride, sodium, potassium and magnesium ions. Indication of a salinity- and plant nutrient-dependent distribution of SRPs related to Desulfosarcina, Desulfomonile and Desulfobacter was suggested by microarray, DGGE and PLFA analyses.	2008	64	10.1111/j.1574-6941.2008.00490.x	MAYBE	Dave	
Falcon LI; Noguez AM; Espinosa-Asuar L; Eguiarte LE; Souza V	Evidence of biogeography in surface ocean bacterioplankton assemblages	MARINE GENOMICS	Regardless of the importance of bacterial assemblages as essential components of ecosystems, little is known about how their populations are structured. We analyzed the composition and turnover rates, based on 16S rDNA sequences, of surface water oceanic bacterial assemblages of the fraction between 0.1 and 0.8 mu m along a latitudinal gradient (45 degrees 642  N in the North Atlantic to 15 degrees 837  S in the South Pacific) including geographic distance, temperature, chlorophyll a and salinity. Here we show that oceanic bacterial assemblages between 0.1 and 0.8 mu m, can be structured by a variety of environmental interactions that include separation by distance and chlorophyll a concentration in temperate North Atlantic coastal samples and temperature in tropical Atlantic and Pacific coastal and open ocean samples. Bacterial phyla composition diverged between temperate and tropical regions. This study suggests that some bacterial assemblages could be structured both by environmental and spatial factors, while others by environmental factors alone. (C) 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2008	1	10.1016/j.margen.2008.06.005	YES	Dave	
Findlay RH; Yeates C; Hullar MAJ; Stahl DA; Kaplan LA	Biorne-level biogeography of streambed microbiota	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	A field study was conducted to determine the microbial community structures of streambed sediments across diverse geographic and climatic areas. Sediment samples were collected from three adjacent headwater forest streams within three biomes, eastern deciduous (Pennsylvania), southeastern coniferous (New Jersey), and tropical evergreen (Guanacaste, Costa Rica), to assess whether there is biome control of stream microbial community structure. Bacterial abundance, microbial biomass, and bacterial and microbial community structures were determined using classical, biochemical, and molecular methods. Microbial biomass, determined using phospholipid phosphate, was significantly greater in the southeastern coniferous biome, likely due to the smaller grain size, higher organic content, and lower levels of physical disturbance of these sediments. Microbial community structure was determined using phospholipid fatty acid (PLFA) profiles and bacterial community structure from terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism and edited (microeukaryotic PLFAs removed) PLFA profiles. Principal component analysis (PCA) was used to investigate patterns in total microbial community structure. The first principal component separated streams based on the importance of phototrophic microeukaryotes within the community, while the second separated southeastern coniferous streams from all others based on increased abundance of fungal PLFAs. PCA also indicated that within- and among-stream variations were small for tropical evergreen streams and large for southeastern coniferous streams. A similar analysis of bacterial community structure indicated that streams within biomes had similar community structures, while each biome possessed a unique streambed community, indicating strong within-biome control of stream bacterial community structure.	2008	74	10.1128/AEM.01809-07	MAYBE	Dave	
Hamilton AK; Lovejoy C; Galand PE; Ingram RG	Water masses and biogeography of picoeukaryote assemblages in a cold hydrographically complex system	LIMNOLOGY AND OCEANOGRAPHY	We investigated the influence of geographic distance, environmental variables, and water mass origin on picoeukaryote ( phytoplankton and other protists < 3 mu m) assemblages to assess the presence of biogeographic patterns. The study region was an area of converging Arctic and Atlantic currents where several distinct water masses were overlain and intersecting. Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis ( DGGE) profiles of assemblages revealed 42 distinct band types overall, with minimum richness ( 8 band types) in Arctic surface water and Atlantic deep water, and maximum richness ( 22 band types) in regions of water mass mixing. Sequencing of DGGE bands revealed that most sequences ( 78 of 98) matched uncultured clones from major taxonomic marine groups, including the Acantharea, Bacillariophyceae, Cercozoa, Chrysophyceae, Dinophyceae, Prasinophyceae, Prymnesiophyceae, and stramenopiles, as well as the novel marine stramenopiles ( MAST), alveolate groups I and II, and picobiliphytes. Multivariate statistical analysis of DGGE profiles revealed that picoeukaryote assemblage composition was positively correlated with geographic proximity, abiotic environmental conditions ( salinity, photosynthetically active radiation, and transmissivity), and biotic community structure ( total phototrophic biomass and size class). Picoeukaryote assemblage similarity was also strongly associated with water mass origin; assemblages in close spatial proximity ( horizontally or vertically) showed less similarity if located in different water masses, while spatially distant assemblages showed higher similarity if located within the same water mass. This study highlights that ocean hydrodynamics must be considered to fully explain the distribution and diversity of microbes in this fluid realm.	2008	53	10.4319/lo.2008.53.3.0922	YES	Dave	
Van der Gucht K; Cottenie K; Muylaert K; Vloemans N; Cousin S; Declerck S; Jeppesen E; Conde-Porcuna JM; Schwenk K; Zwart G; Degans H; Vyverman W; De Meester L	The power of species sorting: Local factors drive bacterial community composition over a wide range of spatial scales	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	There is a vivid debate on the relative importance of local and regional factors in shaping microbial communities, and on whether microbial organisms show a biogeographic signature in their distribution. Taking a metacommunity approach, spatial factors can become important either through dispersal limitation (compare large spatial scales) or mass effects (in case of strongly connected systems). We here analyze two datasets on bacterial communities [characterized by community fingerprinting through denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE)] in meso- to eutrophic shallow lakes to investigate the importance of spatial factors at three contrasting scales. Variation partitioning on datasets of both the bacterial communities of 11 shallow lakes that are part of a strongly interconnected and densely packed pond system < 1 km apart, three groups of shallow lakes approximate to 100 km apart, as well as these three groups of shallow lakes combined that span a large part of a North-South gradient in Europe (> 2,500 km) shows a strong impact of local environmental factors on bacterial community composition, with a marginal impact of spatial distance. Our results indicate that dispersal is not strongly limiting even at large spatial scales, and that mass effects do not have a strong impact on bacterial communities even in physically connected systems. We suggest that the fast population growth rates of bacteria facilitate efficient species sorting along environmental gradients in bacterial communities over a very broad range of dispersal rates.	2007	104	10.1073/pnas.0707200104	YES	Dave	
Herfort L; Schouten S; Abbas B; Veldhuis MJW; Coolen MJL; Wuchter C; Boon JP; Herndl GJ; Damste JSS	Variations in spatial and temporal distribution of Archaea in the North Sea in relation to environmental variables	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	The spatial and temporal distribution of pelagic Archaea was studied in the southern North Sea by rRNA hybridization, sequencing and quantification of 16S rRNA gene and membrane lipid analyses and related to physical, chemical and biological parameters to determine the factors influencing archaeal biogeography. A clear temporal variability was observed, with marine Crenarchaeota (Group I.1a) being relatively more abundant in winter and Euryarchaeota dominating the archaeal assemblage in spring and summer. Spatial differences in the lateral distribution of Crenarchaeota were also evident. In fact, their abundance was positively correlated with the copy number of the gene encoding the alpha subunit of crenarchaeotal ammonia monooxygenase (amoA) and with concentrations of ammonia, nitrate, nitrite and phosphorus. This suggests that most Crenarchaeota in the North Sea are nitrifiers and that their distribution is determined by nutrient concentrations. However, Crenarchaeota were not abundant when larger phytoplankton (> 3 mu m) dominated the algal population. It is hypothesized that together with nutrient concentration, phytoplankton biomass and community structure can predict crenarchaeotal abundance in the southern North Sea. Euryarchaeotal abundance was positively correlated with chlorophyll a concentrations, but not with phytoplankton community structure. Whether this is related to the potential of Euryarchaeota to perform aerobic anoxygenic phototrophy remains to be shown, but the conspicuous seasonal distribution pattern of Crenarchaeota and Euryarchaeota suggests that they occupy a different ecological niche.	2007	62	10.1111/j.1574-6941.2007.00397.x	MAYBE	Dave	
Newton RJ; Jones SE; Helmus MR; McMahon KD	Phylogenetic ecology of the freshwater Actinobacteria acI lineage	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	The acI lineage of freshwater Actinobacteria is a cosmopolitan and often numerically dominant member of lake bacterial communities. We conducted a survey of acI 16S rRNA genes and 16S-23S rRNA internal transcribed spacer regions from 18 Wisconsin lakes and used standard nonphylogenetic and phylogenetic statistical approaches to investigate the factors that determine acI community composition at the local scale (within lakes) and at the regional scale (across lakes). Phylogenetic reconstruction of 434 acI 16S rRNA genes revealed a well-defined and highly resolved phylogeny. Eleven previously unrecognized monophyletic clades, each with >= 97.9% within-clade 16S rRNA gene sequence identity, were identified. Clade community similarity positively correlated with lake environmental similarity but not with geographic distance, implying that the lakes represent a single biotic region containing environmental filters for communities that have similar compositions. Phylogenetically disparate clades within the acI lineage were most abundant at the regional scale, and local communities were comprised of more closely related clades. Lake pH was a strong predictor of the community composition, but only when lakes with a pH below 6 were included in the data set. In the remaining lakes (pH above 6) biogeographic patterns in the landscape were instead a predictor of the observed acI community structure. The nonrandom distribution of the newly defined acI clades suggests potential ecophysiological differences between the clades, with acI clades AII, BII, and BIII preferring acidic lakes and acI clades AII, AVI, and BI preferring more alkaline lakes.	2007	73	10.1128/AEM.00794-07	YES	Dave	
Langenheder S; Ragnarsson H	The role of environmental and spatial factors for the composition of aquatic bacterial communities	ECOLOGY	This study investigates the importance of local vs. spatial factors on bacterial community composition of 35 rock pools at the Baltic Sea coast. The pools were located in five distinct spatial clusters over a total scale of < 500 m and differed widely in terms of water chemistry. To determine the fractions of the variance in bacterial community composition (BCC) between rock pools that are explained by local environmental vs. spatial factors, a variance partitioning procedure using partial canonical correspondence analysis was performed. Three environmental variables (salinity, chlorophyll a concentration, and water color) had a significant effect on BCC, irrespective of the spatial location of the pools. Vice versa, there was a significant effect of spatial factors on BCC irrespective of any of the environmental factors included in this study. Hence, the patchy spatial distribution of the pools was partly reflected in the composition of the bacterial communities in the pools, which might be caused by congruent colonization events of adjacent pools, such as simultaneous seaspray inputs or direct exchange of bacteria via connecting rivulets. This study shows that the composition of planktonic bacteria can show provincialism at small spatial scales, which is likely to be caused by environmental conditions as well as historical events.	2007	88	10.1890/06-2098.1	YES	Dave	
Fierer N; Morse JL; Berthrong ST; Bernhardt ES; Jackson RB	Environmental controls on the landscape-scale biogeography of stream bacterial communities	ECOLOGY	We determined the biogeographical distributions of stream bacteria and the biogeochemical factors that best explained heterogeneity for 23 locations within the Hubbard Brook watershed, a 3000-ha forested watershed in New Hampshire, USA. Our goal was to assess the factor, or set of factors, responsible for generating the biogeographical patterns exhibited by microorganisms at the landscape scale. We used DNA fingerprinting to characterize bacteria inhabiting fine benthic organic matter (FBOM) because of their important influence on stream nutrient dynamics. Across the watershed, streams of similar pH had similar FBOM bacterial communities. Streamwater pH was the single variable most strongly correlated with the relative distance between communities (Spearmans p = 0.66, P < 0.00 1) although there were other contributing factors, including the quality of the fine benthic organic matter and the amount of dissolved organic carbon and nitrogen in the stream water (P < 0.05 for each). There was no evidence of an effect of geographic distance on bacterial community composition, suggesting that dispersal limitation has little influence on the observed biogeographical patterns in streams across this landscape. Cloning and sequencing of small-subunit rRNA genes confirmed the DNA fingerprinting results and revealed strong shifts among bacterial groups along the pH gradient. With an increase in streamwater pH, the abundance of acidobacteria in the FBOM bacterial community decreased (from 71% to 38%), and the abundance of proteobacteria increased (from 11% to 47%). Together these results suggest that microorganisms, like macro -organisms, do exhibit biogeographical patterns at the landscape scale and that these patterns may be predictable based on biogeochemical factors.	2007	88	10.1890/06-1746.1	YES	Dave	
Vyverman W; Verleyen E; Sabbe K; Vanhoutte K; Sterken M; Hodgson DA; Mann DG; Juggins S; Van de Vijver B; Jones V; Flower R; Roberts D; Chepurnov VA; Kilroy C; Vanormelingen P; De Wever A	Historical processes constrain patterns in global diatom diversity	ECOLOGY	There is a long-standing belief that microbial organisms have unlimited dispersal capabilities, are therefore ubiquitous, and show weak or absent latitudinal diversity gradients. In contrast, using a global freshwater diatom data set, we show that latitudinal gradients in local and regional genus richness are present and highly asymmetric between both hemispheres. Patterns in regional richness are explained by the degree of isolation of lake districts, while the number of locally coexisting diatom genera is highly constrained by the size of the regional diatom pool, habitat availability, and the connectivity between habitats within lake districts. At regional to global scales, historical factors explain significantly more of the observed geographic patterns in genus richness than do contemporary environmental conditions. Together, these results stress the importance of dispersal and migration in structuring diatom communities at regional to global scales. Our results are consistent with predictions from the theory of island biogeography and metacommunity concepts and likely underlie the strong provinciality and endemism observed in the relatively isolated diatom floras in the Southern Hemisphere.	2007	88	10.1890/06-1564.1	MAYBE	Dave	
Roesch LF; Fulthorpe RR; Riva A; Casella G; Hadwin AKM; Kent AD; Daroub SH; Camargo FAO; Farmerie WG; Triplett EW	Pyrosequencing enumerates and contrasts soil microbial diversity	ISME JOURNAL	Estimates of the number of species of bacteria per gram of soil vary between 2000 and 8.3 million (Gans et al., 2005; Schloss and Handelsman, 2006). The highest estimate suggests that the number may be so large as to be impractical to test by amplification and sequencing of the highly conserved 16S rRNA gene from soil DNA (Gans et al., 2005). Here we present the use of high throughput DNA pyrosequencing and statistical inference to assess bacterial diversity in four soils across a large transect of the western hemisphere. The number of bacterial 16S rRNA sequences obtained from each site varied from 26 140 to 53 533. The most abundant bacterial groups in all four soils were the Bacteroidetes, Betaproteobacteria and Alphaproteobacteria. Using three estimators of diversity, the maximum number of unique sequences (operational taxonomic units roughly corresponding to the species level) never exceeded 52 000 in these soils at the lowest level of dissimilarity. Furthermore, the bacterial diversity of the forest soil was phylum rich compared to the agricultural soils, which are species rich but phylum poor. The forest site also showed far less diversity of the Archaea with only 0.009% of all sequences from that site being from this group as opposed to 4%-12% of the sequences from the three agricultural sites. This work is the most comprehensive examination to date of bacterial diversity in soil and suggests that agricultural management of soil may significantly influence the diversity of bacteria and archaea.	2007	1	10.1038/ismej.2007.53	MAYBE	Dave	
Moisander PH; Morrison AE; Ward BB; Jenkins BD; Zehr JP	Spatial-temporal variability in diazotroph assemblages in Chesapeake Bay using an oligonucleotide nifH microarray	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	The distribution of nitrogen-fixing microorganisms in the Chesapeake Bay was investigated using fingerprints from a nifH microarray comprised of 706 60-mer oligonucleotide nifH probes representing cultivated organisms and environmental clones from different nifH clusters. Diverse nifH targets, amplified from samples using degenerate nifH primers, were detected in water column and sediment samples collected in April and October, 2001-2002. Total nifH richness and diversity (Simpsons and Shannon indices) were highest at the most riverine, oligohaline North Bay station. In most samples, the highest diversity was in nifH Cluster 3, which includes many anaerobes, while Cluster 1 (alpha-, beta- gamma- Proteobacteria, Cyanobacteria) targets had the greatest microarray signal intensities. In a multidimensional scaling analysis, deep water communities from April and October were similar within each of the sampling sites, while the surface communities had more variability. Diazotroph communities in the water column in the North Bay were distinct from the Mid- and South Bay communities, and there was a gradual change in sediment diazotroph assemblages from the North to the South Bay. Diazotrophic assemblages from the majority of the water column samples from the Mid- and South Bay clustered with the sediment assemblage in Mid-Bay. Dissolved inorganic nitrogen, salinity, dissolved organic carbon and dissolved organic phosphorus had a significant relationship with the diazotrophic bacterioplankton community. Higher diversity in the freshwater end of the system may reflect variability in disturbance rates and environmental conditions such as forms and concentrations of organic matter, nutrients and oxygen.	2007	9	10.1111/j.1462-2920.2007.01304.x	MAYBE	Dave	
Walker JJ; Pace NR	Phylogenetic composition of Rocky Mountain endolithic microbial ecosystems	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	The endolithic environment, the pore space in rocks, is a ubiquitous microbial habitat. Photosynthesis-based endolithic communities inhabit the outer few millimeters to centimeters of rocks exposed to the surface. Such endolithic ecosystems have been proposed as simple, tractable models for understanding basic principles in microbial ecology. In order to test previously conceived hypotheses about endolithic ecosystems, we studied selected endolithic communities in the Rocky Mountain region of the United States with culture-independent molecular methods. Community compositions were determined by determining rRNA gene sequence contents, and communities were compared using statistical phylogenetic methods. The results indicate that endolithic ecosystems are seeded from a select, global metacommunity and form true ecological communities that are among the simplest microbial ecosystems known. Statistical analysis showed that biogeographical characteristics that control community composition, such as rock type, are more complex than predicted. Collectively, results of this study support the idea that patterns of microbial diversity found in endolithic communities are governed by principles similar to those observed in macroecological systems.	2007	73	10.1128/AEM.02656-06	MAYBE	Dave	
Crump BC; Adams HE; Hobbie JE; Kling GW	Biogeography of bacterioplankton in lakes and streams of an arctic tundra catchment	ECOLOGY	Bacterioplankton community composition was compared across 10 lakes and 14 streams within the catchment of Toolik Lake, a tundra lake in Arctic Alaska, during seven surveys conducted over three years using denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) of PCR-amplified rDNA. Bacterioplankton communities in streams draining tundra were very different than those in streams draining lakes. Communities in streams draining lakes were similar to communities in lakes. In a connected series of lakes and streams, the stream communities changed with distance from the upstream lake and with changes in water chemistry, suggesting inoculation and dilution with bacteria from soil waters or hyporheic zones. In the same system, lakes shared similar bacterioplankton communities (78% similar) that shifted gradually down the catchment. In contrast, unconnected lakes contained somewhat different communities (67% similar). We found evidence that dispersal influences bacterioplankton communities via advection and dilution (mass effects) in streams, and via inoculation and subsequent growth in lakes. The spatial pattern of bacterioplankton community composition was strongly influenced by interactions among soil water, stream, and lake environments. Our results reveal large differences in lake-specific and stream-specific bacterial community composition over restricted spatial scales (< 10 km) and suggest that geographic distance and connectivity influence the distribution of bacterioplankton communities across a landscape.	2007	88	10.1890/06-0387	YES	Dave	
Peay KG; Bruns TD; Kennedy PG; Bergemann SE; Garbelotto M	A strong species-area relationship for eukaryotic soil microbes: island size matters for ectomycorrhizal fungi	ECOLOGY LETTERS	While the effects of habitat size and isolation have been successfully studied for macro-organisms, there is currently debate about their relative importance in explaining patterns of microbial species richness. In this study, we examine the species richness of a dominant group of eukaryotic soil microbes, ectomycorrhizal fungi, on tree islands of constant age and host composition that range in size from < 10 to > 10 000 m(2). Our results show that ectomycorrhizal species richness is significantly reduced on smaller and more isolated tree islands, and the species-area slope that we observe (0.20-0.23) is similar to average slopes reported for macro-organisms. Additionally, species occurrence patterns across tree islands and investment trends in fungal fruit bodies suggest that a trade-off between competition and dispersal could play an important role in structuring ectomycorrhizal assemblages.	2007	10	10.1111/j.1461-0248.2007.01035.x	MAYBE	Dave	
Hewson I; Jacobson-Meyers ME; Fuhrman JA	Diversity and biogeography of bacterial assemblages in surface sediments across the San Pedro Basin, Southern California Borderlands	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Sediment bacteria play important roles in the biogeochemistry of ocean sediments; however, factors influencing assemblage composition have not been extensively studied. We examined extractable sediment bacterial abundance, the composition of bacterial assemblages using a high-throughput molecular fingerprinting approach, and several sediment biogeochemical parameters (organic matter content and alkaline phosphatase activity), along a 35 km transect from Point Fermin, Southern California, to Santa Catalina Island, across the approximately 900-m-deep San Pedro Basin. Automated rRNA intergenic spacer analysis (ARISA) demonstrated that in two spatially isolated shallow (approximately < 60 m, on opposite sides of the channel) sediment environments, assemblages were more similar to each other than to deeper communities. Distinct communities existed in deeper and shallower sediments, and stations within the deep basin over 2 km apart contained remarkably similar assemblage fingerprints. The relative contribution to total amplified DNA fluorescence of operational taxonomic units (OTUs) was significantly correlated to that of other OTUs in few comparisons (2.7% of total), i.e. few bacterial types were found together or apart consistently. The relative proportions within assemblages of only a few OTU were significantly correlated to measured physicochemical parameters (organic matter content and wet/dry weight ratio of sediments) or enzyme (alkaline phosphatase) activities. A low percentage of shared OTU between shallow and deep sediments, and the presence of similar, but spatially isolated assemblages suggests that bacterial OTU may be widely dispersed over scales of a few kilometres, but that environmental conditions select for particular assemblages.	2007	9	10.1111/j.1462-2920.2006.01214.x	YES	Dave	
Ramette A; Tiedje JM	Multiscale responses of microbial life to spatial distance and environmental heterogeneity in a patchy ecosystem	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	Spatial distance (SD) and environmental heterogeneity (EH) are currently thought to represent major factors shaping genetic variation and population abundance, but their relative importance is still poorly understood. Because EH varies at multiple spatial scales, so too are microbial variables expected to vary. The determination of SD x EH interactions at multiple scales is, however, not a trivial exercise, especially when one examines their effects on microbial abundance and genomic similarities. Here we assessed those interactions at all scales perceptible in a patchy environment composed of known plant species and of heterogeneous soil physical and chemical parameters. For free-living, soil-borne Burkholderia ambifaria, genomic similarities responded to most of the spatial scales that the experimental sampling scheme could reveal, despite limited dispersal of the individuals. Species abundance and community composition were, however, responding to much smaller scales more consistent with local responses to EH. Our results suggest that whole-genome similarities may reflect the simultaneous effects of both SD and EH in microbial populations, but the pure effects of each factor only contributed to < 2% of the total genetic variation. The large amount of unexplained variation that remains after considering most environmental, spatial, and biological interactions is then posited to be the result of noise introduced by unmeasured environmental and spatial variability, sampling effects, and neutral ecological drift.	2007	104	10.1073/pnas.0610671104	YES	Dave	
Petz W; Valbonesi A; Schiftner U; Quesada A; Ellis-Evans JC	Ciliate biogeography in Antarctic and Arctic freshwater ecosystems: endemism or global distribution of species?	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Ciliate diversity was investigated in situ in freshwater ecosystems of the maritime (South Shetland Islands, mainly Livingston Island, 63 degrees S) and continental Antarctic (Victoria Land, 75 degrees S), and the High Arctic (Svalbard, 79 degrees N). In total, 334 species from 117 genera were identified in both polar regions, i.e. 210 spp. (98 genera) in the Arctic, 120 spp. (73 genera) in the maritime and 59 spp. (41 genera) in the continental Antarctic. Forty-four species (13% of all species) were common to both Arctic and Antarctic freshwater bodies and 19 spp. to both Antarctic areas (12% of all species). Many taxa are cosmopolitans but some, e.g. Stentor and Metopus spp., are not, and over 20% of the taxa found in any one of the three areas are new to science. Cluster analysis revealed that species similarity between different biotopes (soil, moss) within a study area was higher than between similar biotopes in different regions. Distinct differences in the species composition of freshwater and terrestrial communities indicate that most limnetic ciliates are not ubiquitously distributed. These observations and the low congruence in species composition between both polar areas, within Antarctica and between high- and temperate-latitude water bodies, respectively, suggest that long-distance dispersal of limnetic ciliates is restricted and that some species have a limited geographical distribution.	2007	59	10.1111/j.1574-6941.2006.00259.x	MAYBE	Dave	
Pommier T; Canback B; Riemann L; Bostrom KH; Simu K; Lundberg P; Tunlid A; Hagstrom A	Global patterns of diversity and community structure in marine bacterioplankton	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	Because of their small size, great abundance and easy dispersal, it is often assumed that marine planktonic microorganisms have a ubiquitous distribution that prevents any structured assembly into local communities. To challenge this view, marine bacterioplankton communities from coastal waters at nine locations distributed world-wide were examined through the use of comprehensive clone libraries of 16S ribosomal RNA genes, used as operational taxonomic units (OTU). Our survey and analyses show that there were marked differences in the composition and richness of OTUs between locations. Remarkably, the global marine bacterioplankton community showed a high degree of endemism, and conversely included few cosmopolitan OTUs. Our data were consistent with a latitudinal gradient of OTU richness. We observed a positive relationship between the relative OTU abundances and their range of occupation, i.e. cosmopolitans had the largest population sizes. Although OTU richness differed among locations, the distributions of the major taxonomic groups represented in the communities were analogous, and all local communities were similarly structured and dominated by a few OTUs showing variable taxonomic affiliations. The observed patterns of OTU richness indicate that similar evolutionary and ecological processes structured the communities. We conclude that marine bacterioplankton share many of the biogeographical and macroecological features of macroscopic organisms. The general processes behind those patterns are likely to be comparable across taxa and major global biomes.	2007	16	10.1111/j.1365-294X.2006.03189.x	MAYBE	Dave	
Oline DK; Schmidt SK; Grant MC	Biogeography and landscape-scale diversity of the dominant crenarchaeota of soil	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	We surveyed the diversity of soil Archaea across a large scale elevational gradient of ecosystem types, from foothills forest to alpine tundra in the Front Range of the Rocky Mountains. We used a dilution technique to sequence the single most abundant archaeal 16S rDNA sequence in each of the 40 soil cores distributed across the gradient to compare our results to those of typical 16S clone library studies.We found a greater diversity of sequences than has typically been found in clone library studies from a single site or core, identifying sequences both from the Terrestrial Group and the FFSB Group at several sites. We did not observe any significant environmental correlates with the dominant sequence type, nor was there any relationship between the spatial distance between samples and the phylogenetic similarity of the dominant sequence types. Despite using a very different methodology, our collective results are in remarkably good agreement with other studies of soil Crenarchaeota in terms of the diversity and relative abundance of sequence types identified. We are able to identify two instances of very tightly clustered sequences which we suggest are the results of global selective sweeps-one closely related to SCA1145, an abundant globally distributed group within the Terrestrial Group of Crenarchaeota, and another nested within the more basal FFSB group of sequences. We replicated our sequence results at two levels: first, by repeating the dilution and PCR processes from the same soil core DNA extraction, and second, by performing a replicate DNA extraction from the same homogenized soil core sample. Pairs of sequences produced by the dilution replicates were significantly more similar than the pairs of sequences produced by the extraction replicates, suggesting that soil Crenarchaeota exists in highly localized and discrete clonal populations.	2006	52	10.1007/s00248-006-9101-5	YES	Dave	
Fierer N; Jackson RB	The diversity and biogeography of soil bacterial communities	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	For centuries, biologists have studied patterns of plant and animal diversity at continental scales. Until recently, similar studies were impossible for microorganisms, arguably the most diverse and abundant group of organisms on Earth. Here, we present a continental-scale description of soil bacterial communities and the environmental factors influencing their biodiversity. We collected 98 soil samples from across North and South America and used a ribosomal DNA-fingerprinting method to compare bacterial community composition and diversity quantitatively across sites. Bacterial diversity was unrelated to site temperature, latitude, and other variables that typically predict plant and animal diversity, and community composition was largely independent of geographic distance. The diversity and richness of soil bacterial communities differed by ecosystem type, and these differences could largely be explained by soil pH (r(2) = 0.70 and r(2) = 0.58, respectively; P < 0.0001 in both cases). Bacterial diversity was highest in neutral soils and lower in acidic soils, with soils from the Peruvian Amazon the most acidic and least diverse in our study. Our results suggest that microbial biogeography is controlled primarily by edaphic variables and differs fundamentally from the biogeography of macro organisms.	2006	103	10.1073/pnas.0507535103	YES	Dave	
Lozupone C; Knight R	UniFrac: a new phylogenetic method for comparing microbial communities	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	We introduce here a new method for computing differences between microbial communities based on phylogenetic information. This method, UniFrac, measures the phylogenetic distance between sets of taxa in a phylogenetic tree as the fraction of the branch length of the tree that leads to descendants from either one environment or the other, but not both. UniFrac can be used to determine whether communities are significantly different, to compare many communities simultaneously using clustering and ordination techniques, and to measure the relative contributions of different factors, such as chemistry and geography, to similarities between samples. We demonstrate the utility of UniFrac by applying it to published 16S rRNA gene libraries from cultured isolates and environmental clones of bacteria in marine sediment, water, and ice. Our results reveal that (i) cultured isolates from ice, water, and sediment resemble each other and environmental clone sequences from sea ice, but not environmental clone sequences from sediment and water; (ii) the geographical location does not correlate strongly with bacterial community differences in ice and sediment from the Arctic and Antarctic; and (iii) bacterial communities differ between terrestrially impacted seawater (whether polar or temperate) and warm oligotrophic seawater, whereas those in individual seawater samples are not more similar to each other than to those in sediment or ice samples. These results illustrate that UniFrac provides a new way of characterizing microbial communities, using the wealth of environmental rRNA sequences, and allows quantitative insight into the factors that underlie the distribution of lineages among environments.	2005	71	10.1128/AEM.71.12.8228-8235.2005	MAYBE	Dave	
Kirchman DL; Dittel AI; Malmstrom RR; Cottrell MT	Biogeography of major bacterial groups in the Delaware Estuary	LIMNOLOGY AND OCEANOGRAPHY	We used fluorescence in situ hybridization to examine the spatial and temporal variation in the abundance of major bacterial groups in the Delaware Estuary. The abundance of alpha- and beta-proteobacteria and Actinobacteria varied systematically in the estuary and mirrored the pattern seen in lakes and oceans. Beta-proteobacteria and Actinobacteria were abundant in the Delaware River but were less so in the marine waters of the Delaware Bay. In contrast, alpha-proteobacteria, including the SAR11 clade, were most abundant in the Bay and rare in the Delaware River. Actinobacteria were active in assimilating thymidine and leucine and appeared to contribute substantially to bacterial production in the Delaware River. Among the several biogeochemical parameters we examined, only salinity accounted for a substantial portion of the variation in abundance of these bacterial groups. However, relative abundance of these groups often varied independently of salinity. Cytophaga-like bacteria were often abundant throughout the estuary, but they did not vary systematically over the estuarine gradient, unlike the other dominant bacterial groups. We hypothesize that this estuary-wide high abundance occurs because Cytophaga-like bacteria are very diverse, more so than other groups. Data on 16S IRNA sequences are consistent with this hypothesis. The consistent biogeographic patterns suggest that some bacterial groups, even at a broad phylogenetic level, operate as ecologically meaningful units for examining some processes, whereas the Cytophaga-like bacteria as now defined might be too diverse to be useful for ecological studies.	2005	50		MAYBE	Dave	
Reche I; Pulido-Villena E; Morales-Baquero R; Casamayor EO	Does ecosystem size determine aquatic bacterial richness?	ECOLOGY	With the advent of DNA-based molecular technologies, microbial ecologists now have the tools to test whether general ecological patterns apply to microorganisms. In this study, we selected 11 high-mountain lakes from Sierra Nevada (Spain) to test the predictions of island-biogeography theory in relation to ecosystem size and isolation, and to assess the influence of other factors (i.e., ecosystem productivity, resource richness, and biotic interactions) on bacterial community structure. Bacterial operational taxonomic units (OTUs), generated by denaturing-gradient gel electrophoresis of polymerase chain-reaction-amplified 16S rRNA genes, were used as a surrogate of predominant biodiversity units. OTU composition among lakes was heterogeneous, and the number of site-specific OTUs was near 50%. Lake remoteness did not affect the number of bacterial OTUs although the spatial distribution of the lakes significantly influenced bacterial composition. Lakes that were closer together had more similar bacterial fingerprints. We found a consistent positive association between bacterial OTU richness and lake area. The slope of this relationship (0.161 +/- 0.026, including literature data) was similar to slopes obtained for organisms with high dispersion rates.	2005	86	10.1890/04-1587	YES	Dave	
Santamaria J; Bayman P	Fungal epiphytes and endophytes of coffee leaves (Coffea arabica)	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Plants harbor diverse communities of fungi and other microorganisms. Fungi are known to occur both on plant surfaces (epiphytes) and inside plant tissues (endophytes), but the two communities have rarely been compared. We compared epiphytic and endophytic fungal communities associated with leaves of coffee (Coffea arabica) in Puerto Rico. We asked whether the dominant fungi are the same in both communities, whether endophyte and epiphyte communities are equally diverse, and whether epiphytes and endophytes exhibit similar patterns of spatial heterogeneity among sites. Leaves of naturalized coffee plants were collected from six sites in Puerto Rico. Epiphytic and endophytic fungi were isolated by placing leaf pieces on potato dextrose agar without and with surface sterilization, respectively. A total of 821 colonies were isolated and grouped into 131 morphospecies. The taxonomic affinities of the four most common nonsporulating fungi were determined by sequencing the nuclear ribosomal internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region: two grouped with Xylaria and one each with Botryosphaeria and Guignardia. Of the most common genera, Pestalotia and Botryosphaeria were significantly more common as epiphytes; Colletotrichum, Xylaria, and Guignardia were significantly more common as endophytes. Suprisingly, more morphospecies occurred as endophytes than as epiphytes. Differences among sites in number of fungi per plant were significant. Thus epiphytic and endophytic communities differed greatly on a single leaf, despite living only millimeters apart, and both communities differed from site to site. Significant correlations between occurrence of fungal morphospecies suggested that fungi may have positive or negative effects on their neighbors. This is the first quantitative comparison of epiphytic and endophytic fungal floras in any plant, and the first to examine endophytic fungi or epiphytic fungi in leaves of coffee, one of the worlds most valuable crops.	2005	50	10.1007/s00248-004-0002-1	MAYBE	Dave	
Noguez AM; Arita HT; Escalante AE; Forney LJ; Garcia-Oliva F; Souza V	Microbial macroecology: highly structured prokaryotic soil assemblages in a tropical deciduous forest	GLOBAL ECOLOGY AND BIOGEOGRAPHY	Aim To assess the hypothesis that free-living prokaryotes show a pattern of no biogeography by examining the scaling of soil prokaryotic diversity and by comparing it with other groups biogeographical patterns. Location Two sites in the tropical deciduous forest of Chamela, Jalisco, on the western coast of Mexico. Methods We examined the diversity and distribution of soil prokaryotes in two 8 x 8 m quadrats divided in such manner that we could sample at four spatial scales. Restriction fragment length polymorphisms of 16S rRNA genes were used to define operational taxonomic units (OTUs) that we used in lieu of species to assess diversity. Results We found highly structured species assemblages that allowed us to reject multiple predictions of the hypothesis that soil bacteria show no biogeography. The frequency distribution of range size (measured as the occupancy of quadrats) of OTUs followed a hollow curve similar to that of vertebrates on continents. Assemblages showed high levels of beta diversity and a non-random nested pattern of diversity. OTU diversity scaled with area followed a power function with slopes z = 0.42 and 0.47. Main conclusions We demonstrate a non-ubiquitous dispersal for soil prokaryotes, which suggests a complex biogeography similar to that found for terrestrial vertebrates.	2005	14	10.1111/j.1466-822x.2005.00156.x	MAYBE	Dave	
Taylor MW; Schupp PJ; de Nys R; Kjelleberg S; Steinberg PD	Biogeography of bacteria associated with the marine sponge Cymbastela concentrica	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Recent debate regarding microbial biogeography has focused largely on free-living microbes, yet those microbes associated with host organisms are also of interest from a biogeographical perspective. Marine eukaryotes and associated bacteria should provide ideal systems in which to consider microbial biogeography, as (i) bacteria in seawater should be able to disperse among individuals of the same host species, yet (ii) potential for adaptation to particular hosts (and thus speciation) also exists. We used 16S rDNA-DGGE (denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis) to examine geographic variability in bacterial community composition in the marine sponge Cymbastela concentrica. Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis banding patterns (and phylogenetic analysis of excised DGGE bands) indicated different communities in Cymbastela concentrica from tropical versus temperate Australia. In contrast, communities were very similar over a 500-km portion of the sponges temperate range. Variation in bacterial community composition was also considered with respect to ocean current patterns. We speculate that the divergent communities in different parts of the sponges range provide evidence of endemism attributed to host association, although variation in environmental factors such as light and temperature could also explain the observed results. Interestingly, bacterial communities in seawater varied much less between tropical and temperate locations than did those in C. concentrica, supporting the concept of widespread dispersal among these free-living microbes.	2005	7	10.1111/j.1462-2920.2004.00711.x	MAYBE	Dave	
Perez-Jimenez JR; Kerkhof LJ	Phylogeography of sulfate-reducing bacteria among disturbed sediments, disclosed by analysis of the dissimilatory sulfite reductase genes (dsrAB)	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Sediment samples were collected worldwide from 16 locations on four continents (in New York, California, New Jersey, Virginia, Puerto Rico, Venezuela, Italy, Latvia, and South Korea) to assess the extent of the diversity and the distribution patterns of sulfate-reducing bacteria (SRB) in contaminated sediments. The SRB communities were examined by terminal restriction fragment (TRF) length polymorphism (TRFLP) analysis of the dissimilatory sulfite reductase genes (dsrAB) with Well digests. The fingerprints of dsrAB genes contained a total of 369 fluorescent TRFs, of which <20% were present in the GenBank database. The global sulfidogenic communities appeared to be significantly different among the anthropogenically impacted (petroleum-contaminated) sites, but nearly all were less diverse than pristine habitats, such as mangroves. A global SRB indicator species of petroleum pollution was not identified. However, several dsrAB gene sequences corresponding to hydrocarbon-degrading isolates or consortium members were detected in geographically widely separated polluted sites. Finally, a cluster analysis of the TRFLP fingerprints indicated that many SRB microbial communities were most similar on the basis of close geographic proximity (tens of kilometers). Yet, on larger scales (hundreds to thousands of kilometers) SRB communities could cluster with geographically widely separated sites and not necessarily with the site with the closest proximity. These data demonstrate that SRB populations do not adhere to a biogeographic distribution pattern similar to that of larger eukaryotic organisms, with the greatest species diversity radiating from the Indo-Pacific region. Rather, a patchy SRB distribution is encountered, implying an initially uniform SRB community that has differentiated over time.	2005	71	10.1128/AEM.71.2.1004-1011.2005	MAYBE	Dave	
Blum LK; Roberts MS; Garland JL; Mills AL	Distribution of microbial communities associated with the dominant high marsh plants and sediments of the United States east coast	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Microbial communities in the sediment and associated with the dominant type of standing dead plant were collected from the high marsh zones of 10 sites along the eastern coast of the United States from Maine to Florida. Microbial community composition was examined using T-RFLP, and bacterial and fungal abundance was determined microscopically. Within the sediment, community composition was strongly correlated with latitude, indicating that biogeographical factors are important determinants of sediment community composition, whereas abundance was positively and strongly correlated with sediment organic matter content. A strong biogeographical effect was observed for both bacterial and fungal abundance on standing dead plants, but there was no clear relationship between community composition and latitude. Microbial community composition was more similar among plants of the same type (i.e., related plant species) suggesting that plant type (i.e., substrate quality) is primarily responsible for the determining community composition on standing dead plants.	2004	48	10.1007/s00248-003-1051-6	MAYBE	Dave	
Yannarell AC; Triplett EW	Within- and between-lake variability in the composition of bacterioplankton communities: Investigations using multiple spatial scales	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	This study examined the similarity of epilimnetic bacterial community composition (BCC) across several within- and among-lake spatial scales, and the environmental factors giving rise to similar bacterial communities in different lakes were also explored. Samples were collected from 13 northern and southern Wisconsin lakes representing gradients in lake size, productivity, dissolved organic carbon and humic acid contents, and pH. Hypotheses regarding patchy distribution of bacterial communities in lakes were tested by comparing samples collected from nearby (tens of meters) and distant (hundreds of meters) sampling sites in the same lake. BCC was characterized by using a molecular fingerprinting technique, automated ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis (ARISA). Overall, samples collected at the 10-m, 100-m, and between-lake scales differed by 13, 17, and 75% respectively. Variation at these last two scales was significant. The development of within-lake variation in BCC appeared to depend on the isolation of water by lake shoreline features such as bays or narrow constrictions. ARISA profiles from northern lakes had fewer peaks and were less similar to each other than were those of the southern lakes, suggesting that regional features do not necessarily lead to the development of similar bacterial communities. Lakes at similar positions on productivity and dissolved organic carbon concentration gradients had similar bacterial communities, and bacterial diversity was positively correlated with lake productivity and water temperature. Factorial studies taking into account these gradients, as well as regional spatial scales, should provide much insight into the nature of aquatic bacterial biogeography.	2004	70	10.1128/AEM.70.1.214-223.2004	YES	Dave	
Oda Y; Star B; Huisman LA; Gottschal JC; Forney LJ	Biogeography of the purple nonsulfur bacterium Rhodopseudomonas palustris	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	The biogeography of the purple nonsulfur bacterium Rhodopseudomonas palustris on a local scale was investigated. Thirty clones of phototrophic bacteria were isolated from each of five unevenly spaced sampling locations in freshwater marsh sediments along a linear 10-m transect, and a total of 150 clones were characterized by BOX-PCR genomic DNA fingerprinting. Cluster analysis of 150 genomic fingerprints yielded 26 distinct genotypes, and 106 clones constituted four major genotypes that were repeatedly isolated. Representatives of these four major genotypes were tentatively identified as R. palustris based on phylogentic analyses of 16S rRNA gene sequences. The differences in the genomic fingerprint patterns among the four major genotypes were accompanied by differences in phenotypic characteristics. These phenotypic differences included differences in the kinetics of carbon source use, suggesting that there may be functional differences with possible ecological significance among these clonal linages. Morisita-Horn similarity coefficients (C-MH), which were used to compare the numbers of common genotypes found at pairs of sampling locations, showed that there was substantial similarity between locations that were 1 cm apart (C-MH, greater than or equal to0.95) but there was almost no similarity between locations that were greater than or equal to9 m apart (C-MH, less than or equal to0.25). These calculations showed there was a gradual decrease in similarity among the five locations as a function of distance and that clones of R. palustris were lognormally distributed along the linear 10-m transect. These data indicate that natural populations of R. palustris are assemblages of genetically distinct ecotypes and that the distribution of each ecotypes is patchy.	2003	69	10.1128/AEM.69.9.5186-5191.2003	MAYBE	Dave	
Whitaker RJ; Grogan DW; Taylor JW	Geographic barriers isolate endemic populations of hyperthermophilic archaea	SCIENCE	Barriers to dispersal between populations allow them to diverge through local adaptation or random genetic drift. High-resolution multilocus sequence analysis revealed that, on a global scale, populations of hyperthermophilic microorganisms are isolated from one another by geographic barriers and have diverged over the course of their recent evolutionary history. The identification of a biogeographic pattern in the archaeon Sulfolobus challenges the current model of microbial biodiversity in which unrestricted dispersal constrains the development of global species richness.	2003	301	10.1126/science.1086909	MAYBE	Dave	
Cho JC; Tiedje JM	Biogeography and degree of endemicity of fluorescent Pseudomonas strains in soil	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Fluorescent Pseudomonas strains were isolated from 38 undisturbed pristine soil samples from 10 sites on four continents, A total of 248 isolates were confirmed as Pseudomonas sensu stricto by fluorescent pigment production and group-specific 16S ribosomal DNA (rDNA) primers, These isolates were analyzed by three molecular typing methods with different levels of resolution: 16S rDNA restriction analysis (ARDRA), 16S-23S rDNA intergenic spacer-restriction fragment length polymorphism (ITS-RFLP) analysis, and repetitive extragenic palindromic PCR genomic fingerprinting with a BOX primer set (BOX-PCR), All isolates showed very similar ARDRA patterns, as expected. Some ITS-RFLP types were also found at every geographic scale, although some ITS-RFLP types were unique to the site of origin, indicating weak endemicity at this level of resolution. Using a similarity value of 0.8 or more after cluster analysis of BOX-PCR fingerprinting patterns to define the same genotypes, we identified 85 unique fluorescent Pseudomonas genotypes in our collection, There were no overlapping genotypes between sites as well as continental regions, indicating strict site endemism, The genetic distance between isolates as determined by degree of dissimilarity in BOX-PCR patterns was meaningfully correlated to the geographic distance between the isolates sites of origin, Also, a significant positive spatial autocorrelation of the distribution of the genotypes was observed among distances of <197 km, and significant negative autocorrelation was observed between regions. Hence, strong endemicity of fluorescent Pseudomonas genotypes was observed, suggesting that these heterotrophic soil bacteria are not globally mixed.	2000	66	10.1128/AEM.66.12.5448-5456.2000	YES	Dave	
Teittinen A; Kallajoki L; Meier S; Stigzelius T; Soininen J	The roles of elevation and local environmental factors as drivers of diatom diversity in subarctic streams	FRESHWATER BIOLOGY	High latitude and altitude freshwater systems are highly sensitive to the effects of global warming and associated environmental changes. Diatoms are widely used as sentinels of environmental change, yet knowledge of diatom community patterns in high latitude and altitude streams remains limited. The aim of this study was to examine alpha and beta diversity of diatoms in subarctic streams in Finland and Norway, and to determine the importance of local environmental factors and elevation in shaping their community patterns. We also aimed at testing, for the first time, whether microbes conform to Rapoports elevational rule, which states that species occurring at higher elevations have generally larger elevational ranges than species at lower elevations. Three streams (44 sites in total) with an altitudinal gradient of 21-877m a.s.l. were sampled. Generalized linear models, hierarchical partitioning, and a boosted regression tree method were used to identify drivers of diatom species richness. We ran Mantel tests, and calculated initial similarities and elevational halving distances to examine beta diversity. There were no apparent richness-elevation relationships within streams. Across all study streams, the water depth was the most important factor for richness, with additional influences by stone size, conductivity, pH and elevation. Diatoms in subarctic streams did not conform to Rapoports elevational rule. Community similarity decreased significantly with elevational distance while distance decay was weaker with environmental distance. Our results suggest that diatom alpha and beta diversity along stream elevational gradients are shaped by interacting local environmental factors such as water depth and substrate size, indicating vulnerability of diatoms to physical disturbances, and regional factors such as dispersal and geographical variables. Diatom diversity patterns do not seem to concur with patterns often observed for larger organisms as no consistent elevational patterns in richness or range sizes were found.	2016	61	10.1111/fwb.12791	YES	Dave	
Ferjani R; Marasco R; Rolli E; Cherif H; Cherif A; Gtari M; Boudabous A; Daffonchio D; Ouzari HI	The Date Palm Tree Rhizosphere Is a Niche for Plant Growth Promoting Bacteria in the Oasis Ecosystem	BIOMED RESEARCH INTERNATIONAL	In arid ecosystems environmental factors such as geoclimatic conditions and agricultural practices are of major importance in shaping the diversity and functionality of plant-associated bacterial communities. Assessing the influence of such factors is a key to understand (i) the driving forces determining the shape of root-associated bacterial communities and (ii) the plant growth promoting (PGP) services they provide. Desert oasis environment was chosen as model ecosystem where agriculture is possible by the microclimate determined by the date palm cultivation. The bacterial communities in the soil fractions associated with the root system of date palms cultivated in seven oases in Tunisia were assessed by culture-independent and dependent approaches. According to 16S rRNA gene PCR-DGGE fingerprinting, the shapes of the date palm rhizosphere bacterial communities correlate with geoclimatic features along a north-south aridity transect. Despite the fact that the date palm root bacterial community structure was strongly influenced by macroecological factors, the potential rhizosphere services reflected in the PGP traits of isolates screened in vitro were conserved among the different oases. Such services were exerted by the 83% of the screened isolates. The comparable numbers and types of PGP traits indicate their importance in maintaining the plant functional homeostasis despite the different environmental selection pressures.	2015	NA	10.1155/2015/153851	MAYBE	Dave	
Zinger L; Boetius A; Ramette A	Bacterial taxa-area and distance-decay relationships in marine environments	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	The taxa-area relationship (TAR) and the distance-decay relationship (DDR) both describe spatial turnover of taxa and are central patterns of biodiversity. Here, we compared TAR and DDR of bacterial communities across different marine realms and ecosystems at the global scale. To obtain reliable global estimates for both relationships, we quantified the poorly assessed effects of sequencing depth, rare taxa removal and number of sampling sites. Slope coefficients of bacterial TARs were within the range of those of plants and animals, whereas slope coefficients of bacterial DDR were much lower. Slope coefficients were mostly affected by removing rare taxa and by the number of sampling sites considered in the calculations. TAR and DDR slope coefficients were overestimated at sequencing depth <4000 sequences per sample. Noticeably, bacterial TAR and DDR patterns did not correlate with each other both within and across ecosystem types, suggesting that (i) TAR cannot be directly derived from DDR and (ii) TAR and DDR may be influenced by different ecological factors. Nevertheless, we found marine bacterial TAR and DDR to be steeper in ecosystems associated with high environmental heterogeneity or spatial isolation, namely marine sediments and coastal environments compared with pelagic ecosystems. Hence, our study provides information on macroecological patterns of marine bacteria, as well as methodological and conceptual insights, at a time when biodiversity surveys increasingly make use of high-throughput sequencing technologies.	2014	23	10.1111/mec.12640	YES	Dave	
Heino J; Tolkkinen M; Pirttila AM; Aisala H; Mykra H	Microbial diversity and community-environment relationships in boreal streams	JOURNAL OF BIOGEOGRAPHY	AimThe perspective that microbial communities are controlled solely by environmental factors (everything is everywhere, but the environment selects) has persisted for a long time, notwithstanding that recent studies have found that both environmental factors and spatial processes are important. We examined variation in the structure of fungal and bacterial communities in boreal streams along large local environmental gradients (e.g. stream size, acidity and nutrients) at intermediate spatial extent. Owing to the intermediate spatial extent of our study area and high dispersal rates of microbes, we expected that local environmental factors would structure stream fungal and bacterial communities. LocationA set of 30 streams was sampled along a geographical transect from western to eastern Finland. MethodsLeaf packs were used as sampling units in each stream. Fungal and bacterial operational taxonomic units (OTUs) were determined using pyrosequencing in the laboratory. Species accumulation curves were used to assess how well the regional species pools were sampled. Partial redundancy analysis and partial linear regression were used to determine the relative contributions of environmental and spatial variables to community structure and OTU richness, respectively. ResultsWe found that environmental control was important in structuring fungal and bacterial communities, yet much of the variation was attributable to the shared effects of environmental and spatial predictors, or remained unexplained. The composition of fungal and bacterial communities was most strongly related to water chemistry variables (i.e. pH, aluminium and total phosphorus), whereas habitat variables (i.e. riparian deciduous trees, moss cover, substratum particle size and stream width) were clearly less important. We also found that fungal richness was negatively related to water iron concentration, whereas bacterial richness showed only a weak relationship with water pH. Main conclusionsThe composition and richness of stream microbial communities are mostly related to water chemistry variables at the spatial extent studied, emphasizing an important role for species sorting. This finding supports the traditional perspective that local environmental conditions are important drivers of variation in microbial communities. However, much of the variation in fungal and bacterial communities remained unexplained, suggesting that drivers of these communities are likely to be complex and not yet fully understood.	2014	41	10.1111/jbi.12369	MAYBE	Dave	
Jeong SY; Yi T; Lee CH; Kim TG	Spatiotemporal dynamics and correlation networks of bacterial and fungal communities in a membrane bioreactor	WATER RESEARCH	To systematically study biofilm communities responsible for biofouling in membrane bioreactors (MBRs), we characterized the spatiotemporal dynamics of bacterial and fungal biofilm communities, and their networks, in a pilot-scale flat-sheet MBR treating actual municipal wastewater. Activated sludge (AS) and membrane samples were collected on days 4 and 8. The membranes were cut into 18 tiles, and bacterial and fungal communities were analyzed using next generation sequencing. Nonmetric multidimensional scaling (NMDS) plots revealed significant temporal variations in bacterial and fungal biofilm communities due to changes in the abundances of a few dominant members. Although the experimental conditions and inoculum species pools remained constant, variogram plots of bacterial and fungal communities revealed decay in local community similarity with geographic distance at each sampling time. Variogram modeling (exponential rise to maximum, R-2 >= 0.79) revealed that decay patterns of both communities were different between days 4 and 8. In addition, networks of bacteria or fungi alone were distinct in network composition between days 4 and 8. The day-8 networks were more compact and clustered than those of the earlier time point. Bacteria-fungi networks show that the number of inter domain associations decreased from 113 to 40 with time, confirming that membrane biofilm is a complex consortium of bacteria and fungi. Spatiotemporal succession in biofilm communities may be common on MBR membranes, resulting from different geographic distributions of initial microbial populations and their priority effects. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2016	105	10.1016/j.watres.2016.09.001	YES	Dave	
David AS; Seabloom EW; May G	Plant Host Species and Geographic Distance Affect the Structure of Aboveground Fungal Symbiont Communities, and Environmental Filtering Affects Belowground Communities in a Coastal Dune Ecosystem	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Microbial symbionts inhabit tissues of all plants and animals. Their community composition depends largely on two ecological processes: (1) filtering by abiotic conditions and host species determining the environments that symbionts are able to colonize and (2) dispersal-limitation determining the pool of symbionts available to colonize a given host and community spatial structure. In plants, the above- and belowground tissues represent such distinct habitats for symbionts that we expect different effects of filtering and spatial structuring on their symbiont communities. In this study, we characterized above- and belowground communities of fungal endophytes-fungi living asymptomatically within plants-to understand the contributions of filtering and spatial structure to endophyte community composition. We used a culture-based approach to characterize endophytes growing in leaves and roots of three species of coastal beachgrasses in dunes of the USA Pacific Northwest. For leaves, endophyte isolation frequency and OTU richness depended primarily on plant host species. In comparison, for roots, both isolation frequency and OTU richness increased from the nutrient-poor front of the dune to the higher-nutrient backdune. Endophyte community composition in leaves exhibited a distance-decay relationship across the region. In a laboratory assay, faster growth rates and lower spore production were more often associated with leaf- than root-inhabiting endophytes. Overall, our results reveal a greater importance of biotic filtering by host species and dispersal-limitation over regional geographic distances for aboveground leaf endophyte communities and stronger effects of abiotic environmental filtering and locally patchy distributions for belowground root endophyte communities.	2016	71	10.1007/s00248-015-0712-6	YES	Dave	
Pernice MC; Giner CR; Logares R; Perera-Bel J; Acinas SG; Duarte CM; Gasol JM; Massana R	Large variability of bathypelagic microbial eukaryotic communities across the worlds oceans	ISME JOURNAL	In this work, we study the diversity of bathypelagic microbial eukaryotes (0.8-20 mu m) in the global ocean. Seawater samples from 3000 to 4000 m depth from 27 stations in the Atlantic, Pacific and Indian Oceans were analyzed by pyrosequencing the V4 region of the 18S ribosomal DNA. The relative abundance of the most abundant operational taxonomic units agreed with the results of a parallel metagenomic analysis, suggesting limited PCR biases in the tag approach. Although rarefaction curves for single stations were seldom saturated, the global analysis of all sequences together suggested an adequate recovery of bathypelagic diversity. Community composition presented a large variability among samples, which was poorly explained by linear geographic distance. In fact, the similarity between communities was better explained by water mass composition (26% of the variability) and the ratio in cell abundance between prokaryotes and microbial eukaryotes (21%). Deep diversity appeared dominated by four taxonomic groups (Collodaria, Chrysophytes, Basidiomycota and MALV-II) appearing in different proportions in each sample. Novel diversity amounted to 1% of the pyrotags and was lower than expected. Our study represents an essential step in the investigation of bathypelagic microbial eukaryotes, indicating dominating taxonomic groups and suggesting idiosyncratic assemblages in distinct oceanic regions.	2016	10	10.1038/ismej.2015.170	YES	Dave	
Van Cauwenberghe J; Michiels J; Honnay O	Effects of local environmental variables and geographical location on the genetic diversity and composition of Rhizobium leguminosarum nodulating Vicia cracca populations	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	Different legume populations are known to accommodate different genotypes of Rhizobium leguminosarum. However, in contrast to interspecific diversity and composition, very little is known regarding which environmental factors drive the genetic diversity and genetic composition of a single Rhizobium species. Based on chromosomal and plasmid genes, we quantified the genetic diversity and compositional differences of R. leguminosarum biovar viciae genotypes associated with twenty-four different Vicia cracca populations across a wide environmental and geographical range. Long-term soil nitrogen availability had a positive effect on chromosomal and plasmid diversity, whereas salinity had a negative effect on chromosomal diversity. Soil pH and geographic distance were the main factors driving compositional differences among populations. In contrast to differences in chromosomal composition, differences in the symbiotic plasmid composition were primarily related to geographic distance or unmeasured related environmental factors (e.g. host plant genetic differentiation). We propose different hypotheses to explain how long-term soil nitrogen availability affects rhizobial genetic diversity. Furthermore, our findings demonstrate that ecological processes that are known to operate at the interspecific level do not necessarily result in the same patterns at the intraspecific level. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2015	90	10.1016/j.soilbio.2015.08.001	MAYBE	Dave	
Junker RR; Keller A	Microhabitat heterogeneity across leaves and flower organs promotes bacterial diversity	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Eukaryote-associated microbiomes interact with their hosts in multiple manners, thereby affecting the hosts phenotype, physical condition and behaviour. In plants, bacteria have numerous functions, with variable net effects, both in natural and agricultural systems. However, information about the composition and diversity of the bacterial communities associated with different aboveground plant organs, particularly flowers, is lacking. In addition, the relative effects of microhabitat and environmental conditions on community establishment require further attention. Here, using culture-independent methods, we determine that leaves and three floral microhabitats (nectar, stamina and styles) of Metrosideros polymorpha (Myrtaceae), a tree endemic to Hawaii, host unique indicator communities composed of relatively abundant bacterial taxa. These indicator communities are accompanied by a large number of ubiquitous or rare bacteria with lower abundances. In our study system, the strong effect of microhabitat filtering on plant-associated community composition and bacterial richness and diversity strongly exceeds the influence of environmental effects such as precipitation, altitude, substrate age and geographic distance. Thus, the bacterial richness of aboveground plant organs is strongly underestimated when only one microhabitat, e.g. leaves, is considered. Our study represents a first step towards a comprehensive characterization of the distribution, composition and underlying factors, of plant bacterial communities, with implications for future basic and applied research on plant health, pollination and reproduction.	2015	91	10.1093/femsec/fiv097	YES	Dave	
Balzano S; Abs E; Leterme SC	Protist diversity along a salinity gradient in a coastal lagoon	AQUATIC MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	The importance of microbial eukaryotes to aquatic systems has been widely acknowledged in the last decade, and the application of high-throughput sequencing techniques has revealed an astonishing diversity and high proportions of novel taxa. Most studies have focused either on marine or freshwater ecosystems; thus, information on estuarine communities is either incomplete or missing. We assessed the composition of microbial eukaryotes along a South Australian coastal lagoon affected by a broad (7 to 65 PSU) salinity gradient, the Coorong Lagoon. This lagoon extends for over 170 km from the mouth of the River Murray (Murray Mouth) southwards, where the salinity increases up to hypersaline values. We sampled 5 stations during the austral summer and winter and sequenced the amplified V4 region of the 18S rRNA gene using Ion Torrent. Genetic libraries were mostly represented by reads from 5 phyla, with Chlorophyta prevailing in summer, diatoms in winter and Haptophyta in the southernmost sampling sites. In spite of the broad spatial and temporal salinity changes observed, the communities of small eukaryotes clustered in 2 groups reflecting the sample location. Moreover, dissimilarities between samples were unaffected by differences in salinity, but increased with increasing geographic distances. Microbial exchanges from the Coorong Lagoon towards both freshwater and seawater occur via the Murray Mouth and are likely to prevent the formation of communities adapted to local salinity conditions. However, such exchanges likely decrease with increasing distances from the Murray Mouth, resulting in distance-driven eukaryotic communities.	2015	74	10.3354/ame01740	YES	Dave	
Mueller RC; Paula FS; Mirza BS; Rodrigues JLM; Nusslein K; Bohannan BJM	Links between plant and fungal communities across a deforestation chronosequence in the Amazon rainforest	ISME JOURNAL	Understanding the interactions among microbial communities, plant communities and soil properties following deforestation could provide insights into the long-term effects of land-use change on ecosystem functions, and may help identify approaches that promote the recovery of degraded sites. We combined high-throughput sequencing of fungal rDNA and molecular barcoding of plant roots to estimate fungal and plant community composition in soil sampled across a chronosequence of deforestation. We found significant effects of land-use change on fungal community composition, which was more closely correlated to plant community composition than to changes in soil properties or geographic distance, providing evidence for strong links between above- and below-ground communities in tropical forests.	2014	8	10.1038/ismej.2013.253	YES	Dave	
Cline LC; Zak DR	Dispersal limitation structures fungal community assembly in a long-term glacial chronosequence	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Microbial communities in soil mediate biogeochemical processes; however, understanding forces shaping their composition and function remains a gap in our ecological knowledge. We investigated phylogenetic turnover and functional gene composition of saprotrophic fungi along a 4000-year glacial chronosequence. A direct relationship between -diversity and geographic distance, a proxy for time since deglaciation, indicated that dispersal limitation shapes saprotrophic fungal communities. Further, we infer that dispersal limitation may also influence fungal functional properties as metabolic potential and functional richness increased with site age. Despite attempts to minimize environmental variation, a direct relationship between -diversity and biogeochemical differences across sites indicated that environmental filtering further shapes fungal community composition. However, environmental filtering was overshadowed by the effect of dispersal limitation when tested by multiple regression. Fungal -diversity and composition of functional genes involved in plant litter decay were unrelated, suggesting that functional traits are not phylogenetically conserved across this chronosequence. Our study suggests that dispersal limitation operates in structuring present-day fungal community composition and functional potential. Further, we demonstrate the need to integrate functional and phylogenetic approaches to more accurately portray microbial communities and their functional capacities.	2014	16	10.1111/1462-2920.12281	YES	Dave	
Ruff SE; Arnds J; Knittel K; Amann R; Wegener G; Ramette A; Boetius A	Microbial Communities of Deep-Sea Methane Seeps at Hikurangi Continental Margin (New Zealand)	PLOS ONE	The methane-emitting cold seeps of Hikurangi margin (New Zealand) are among the few deep-sea chemosynthetic ecosystems of the Southern Hemisphere known to date. Here we compared the biogeochemistry and microbial communities of a variety of Hikurangi cold seep ecosystems. These included highly reduced seep habitats dominated by bacterial mats, partially oxidized habitats populated by heterotrophic ampharetid polychaetes and deeply oxidized habitats dominated by chemosynthetic frenulate tubeworms. The ampharetid habitats were characterized by a thick oxic sediment layer that hosted a diverse and biomass-rich community of aerobic methanotrophic Gammaproteobacteria. These bacteria consumed up to 25% of the emanating methane and clustered within three deep-branching groups named Marine Methylotrophic Group (MMG) 1-3. MMG1 and MMG2 methylotrophs belong to the order Methylococcales, whereas MMG3 methylotrophs are related to the Methylophaga. Organisms of the groups MMG1 and MMG3 are close relatives of chemosynthetic endosymbionts of marine invertebrates. The anoxic sediment layers of all investigated seeps were dominated by anaerobic methanotrophic archaea (ANME) of the ANME-2 clade and sulfate-reducing Deltaproteobacteria. Microbial community analysis using Automated Ribosomal Intergenic Spacer Analysis (ARISA) showed that the different seep habitats hosted distinct microbial communities, which were strongly influenced by the seep-associated fauna and the geographic location. Despite outstanding features of Hikurangi seep communities, the organisms responsible for key ecosystem functions were similar to those found at seeps worldwide. This suggests that similar types of biogeochemical settings select for similar community composition regardless of geographic distance. Because ampharetid polychaetes are widespread at cold seeps the role of aerobic methanotrophy may have been underestimated in seafloor methane budgets.	2013	8	10.1371/journal.pone.0072627	YES	Dave	
Filker S; Stock A; Breiner HW; Edgcomb V; Orsi W; Yakimov MM; Stoeck T	Environmental selection of protistan plankton communities in hypersaline anoxic deep-sea basins, Eastern Mediterranean Sea	MICROBIOLOGYOPEN	High salt concentrations, absence of light, anoxia, and high hydrostatic pressure make deep hypersaline anoxic basins (DHABs) in the Eastern Mediterranean Sea one of the most polyextreme habitats on Earth. Taking advantage of the unique chemical characteristics of these basins, we tested the effect of environmental selection and geographic distance on the structure of protistan communities. Terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) analyses were performed on water samples from the brines and seawater/brine interfaces of five basins: Discovery, Urania, Thetis, Tyro, and Medee. Using statistical analyses, we calculated the partitioning of diversity among the ten individual terminal restriction fragment (T-RF) profiles, based on peak abundance and peak incidence. While a significant distance effect on spatial protistan patterns was not detected, hydrochemical gradients emerged as strong dispersal barriers that likely lead to environmental selection in the DHAB protistan plankton communities. We identified sodium, magnesium, sulfate, and oxygen playing in concerto as dominant environmental drivers for the structuring of protistan plankton communities in the Eastern Mediterranean DHABs.	2013	2	10.1002/mbo3.56	YES	Dave	
Zhang T; Xu JH; Zeng J; Lou K	Diversity of prokaryotes associated with soils around coal-fire gas vents in MaNasi county of Xinjiang, China	ANTONIE VAN LEEUWENHOEK INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF GENERAL AND MOLECULAR MICROBIOLOGY	Bacterial and archaeal diversity in surface soils of three coal-fire vents was investigated by T-RFLP analysis and clone libraries of 16S rRNA genes. Soil analysis showed that underground coal fires significantly influenced soil pH, moisture and NO3 (-) content but had little effect on other elements, organic matter and available nutrients. Hierarchical cluster analysis showed that bacterial community patterns in the soils were very similar, but abundance varied with geographic distance. A clone library from one soil showed that the bacterial community was mainly composed of Firmicutes, Proteobacteria, Acidobacteria, Bacteroidetes, Planctomycetes, Actinobacteria, and unidentified groups. Of these, Firmicutes was the most abundant, accounting for 71.4 % of the clones, and was mainly represented by the genera Bacillus and Paenibacillus. Archaeal phylotypes were closely related to uncultivated species of the phyla Crenarchaeota (97.9 % of clones) and Thaumarchaeota (2.1 %). About 28 % of archaeal phylotypes were associated with ammonia oxidization, especially phylotypes that were highly related to a novel, ammonia-oxidizing isolate from the phylum Thaumarchaeota. These results suggested that microbial communities in the soils were diverse and might contain a large number of novel cultivable species with the potential to assimilate materials by heterotrophic metabolism at high temperature.	2013	103	10.1007/s10482-012-9782-3	YES	Dave	
de Figueiredo DR; Castro BB; Pereira MJ; Correia A	Bacterioplankton community composition in Portuguese water bodies under a severe summer drought	COMMUNITY ECOLOGY	In 2005, a severe drought occurred in Portugal, with several reservoirs becoming dry in the southern region. A set of 20 Portuguese water bodies were analysed through denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (16SrDNA-DGGE) and DNA sequencing to assess its bacterioplankton diversity under these particular conditions. Environmental parameters were determined to assess the trophic conditions of each water body. Most water bodies fell into the meso-to eutrophic and hypereutrophic state. In general, the levels for conductivity, pH and total suspended solids were higher than the average data from previous years. Dominant phylotypes belonged to Cyanobacteria, Actinobacteria Alphaproteobacteria, Betaproteobacteria and Bacteroidetes groups. Despite the geographic distance, common phylotypes could be recorded among water bodies. Bacteroidetes dominated at Sousa River and were related to high nutrient levels. Cyanobacteria dominated at Alentejo reservoirs and correlated with higher conductivity values. However, Actinobacteria showed ubiquitous phylotypes throughout several samples, suggesting its persistence over geographically distant water bodies. This study showed a clear deterioration of water quality, from a physico-chemical point of view; furthermore, dominance of Cyanobacteria and Actinobacteria in reservoirs used for drinking water supply were also detected, which may become a concerning issue. However, the most severe bacterial community composition variations between summer 2005 and others were mainly related to higher water residence times. Thus, along with the expected intensification of drought episodes, with severe effects particularly in Southern Europe, it is clearly predictable an intensification in risks for water quality maintenance and even Public Health.	2012	13	10.1556/ComEc.13.2012.2.8	MAYBE	Dave	
Yavitt JB; Yashiro E; Cadillo-Quiroz H; Zinder SH	Methanogen diversity and community composition in peatlands of the central to northern Appalachian Mountain region, North America	BIOGEOCHEMISTRY	Methanogenic archaea are ubiquitous in peat soils; however, their diversity and distributions within and among peatland ecosystems are not well known. We used comprehensive clone libraries of 16S rRNA gene sequences to investigate spatial patterns in diversity (richness, evenness of taxa) and composition (taxonomic, phylogenetic) of the methanogenic community in six peatlands arrayed 775 km from eastern Ontario, Canada to West Virginia, USA. Five sites were Sphagnum (moss) and shrub dominated; one site was sedge dominated; and, potential rates of methane (CH4) production ranged from 15 to 450 nmol/g day. The gradient allowed us to examine influences of site conditions, site history, and climate on community composition. The region had representatives of methanogens from four taxonomic orders. We observed 29 operationally defined units (OTUs) based on > 97% sequence identity. One OTU accounted for 43% of all clones, whereas 15 OTUs were rare with < 1% of the total number of clones. The number of OTUs per site ranged from 4 to 21, and statistical analysis suggested diversity of 4-43 per site. Eighteen of the OTUs were endemic to one site; albeit, most endemics occurred in the sedge dominated site. One OTU was cosmopolitan, occurring in all six sites. We found a positive relationship between methanogen diversity and rates of CH4 production per site (Pearson r = 0.93). Turnover in community composition between sites was weakly related to geographic distance between sites, whereas variation in soil pH and annual temperature played larger roles. About 50% of the variation in community composition was unexplained by distance, pH, mean climate, and site age. We conclude that methanogen diversity in peatlands of the central Appalachian region is shaped by present-day environmental conditions, suggesting an influence of impending climatic and environmental changes.	2012	109	10.1007/s10533-011-9644-5	YES	Dave	
Noyer C; Becerro MA	Relationship between genetic, chemical, and bacterial diversity in the Atlanto-Mediterranean bath sponge Spongia lamella	HYDROBIOLOGIA	Does diversity beget diversity? Diversity includes a diversity of concepts because it is linked to variability in and of life and can be applied to multiple levels. The connections between multiple levels of diversity are poorly understood. Here, we investigated the relationships between genetic, bacterial, and chemical diversity of the endangered Atlanto-Mediterranean sponge Spongia lamella. These levels of diversity are intrinsically related to sponge evolution and could have strong conservation implications. We used microsatellite markers, denaturing gel gradient electrophoresis and quantitative polymerase chain reaction, and high performance liquid chromatography to quantify genetic, bacterial, and chemical diversity of nine sponge populations. We then used correlations to test whether these diversity levels covaried. We found that sponge populations differed significantly in genetic, bacterial, and chemical diversity. We also found a strong geographic pattern of increasing genetic, bacterial, and chemical dissimilarity with increasing geographic distance between populations. However, we failed to detect significant correlations between the three levels of diversity investigated in our study. Our results suggest that diversity fails to beget diversity within a single species and indicates that a diversity of factors regulates a diversity of diversities, which highlights the complex nature of the mechanisms behind diversity.	2012	687	10.1007/s10750-011-0884-0	YES	Dave	
Hamilton TL; Boyd ES; Peters JW	Environmental Constraints Underpin the Distribution and Phylogenetic Diversity of nifH in the Yellowstone Geothermal Complex	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Biological nitrogen fixation is a keystone process in many ecosystems, providing bioavailable forms of fixed nitrogen for members of the community. In the present study, degenerate primers targeting the nitrogenase iron protein-encoding gene (nifH) were designed and employed to investigate the physical and chemical parameters that underpin the distribution and diversity of nifH as a proxy for nitrogen-fixing organisms in the geothermal springs of Yellowstone National Park (YNP), Wyoming. nifH was detected in 57 of the 64 YNP springs examined, which varied in pH from 1.90 to 9.78 and temperature from 16A degrees C to 89A degrees C. This suggested that the distribution of nifH in YNP is widespread and is not constrained by pH and temperature alone. Phylogenetic and statistical analysis of nifH recovered from 13 different geothermal spring environments indicated that the phylogeny exhibits evidence for both geographical and ecological structure. Model selection indicated that the phylogenetic relatedness of nifH assemblages could be best explained by the geographic distance between sampling sites. This suggests that nifH assemblages are dispersal limited with respect to the fragmented nature of the YNP geothermal spring environment. The second highest ranking explanatory variable for predicting the phylogenetic relatedness of nifH assemblages was spring water conductivity (a proxy for salinity), suggesting that salinity may constrain the distribution of nifH lineages in geographically isolated YNP spring ecosystems. In summary, these results indicate a widespread distribution of nifH in YNP springs, and suggest a role for geographical and ecological factors in constraining the distribution of nifH lineages in the YNP geothermal complex.	2011	61	10.1007/s00248-011-9824-9	YES	Dave	
Singh SK; Ramaiah N	Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis profiling of bacterial communities composition in Arabian Sea	JOURNAL OF ENVIRONMENTAL BIOLOGY	Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) was used to elucidate spatial and temporal variations in bacterial community composition (BCC) from four locations along the central west coast of India. DNA extracts from 36 water samples collected from surface, mid-depth (similar to 10 m) and dose to bottom (similar to 20 m) during premonsoon, postmonsoon, monsoon were analyzed by PCR for amplifying variable region of 16S rRNA gene and subsequently through DGGE. Prominent bands were excised, cloned and sequenced indicated the preponderance of gammaproteobacteria, bacteroidetes and cyanobacteria. Non-metric dimensional scaling of the DGGE gels indicated that the spatial variations in BCC were prominent among the sampling locations. Temporal variations in the BCC appear to be influenced by monsoonal processes. The canonical correspondence analyses suggest that the concentration of chlorophyll a and nitrate are two important environmental factors for both spatial and temporal variations in BCC. Chlorophyll a seems to be impart a top-down control of BCC while nitrate, the bottom-up control. Our results also suggest that BCC can vary over a small geographic distance in highly dynamic, seasonally predisposed tropical coastal waters.	2011	32		MAYBE	Dave	
Barberan A; Casamayor EO	Euxinic Freshwater Hypolimnia Promote Bacterial Endemicity in Continental Areas	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Bacteria and archaea represent the vast majority of biodiversity on Earth. The ways that dynamic ecological and evolutionary processes interact in the microbial world are, however, poorly known. Here, we have explored community patterns of planktonic freshwater bacteria inhabiting stratified lakes with oxic/anoxic interfaces and euxinic (anoxic and sulfurous) water masses. The interface separates a well-oxygenated upper water mass (epilimnion) from a lower anoxic water compartment (hypolimnion). We assessed whether or not the vertical zonation of lakes promoted endemism in deeper layers by analyzing bacterial 16S rRNA gene sequences from the water column of worldwide distributed stratified lakes and applying a community ecology approach. Community similarity based on the phylogenetic relatedness showed that bacterial assemblages from the same water layer were more similar across lakes than to communities from different layer within lakes and that anoxic hypolimnia presented greater beta-diversity than oxic epilimnia. Higher beta-diversity values are attributable to low dispersal and small connectivity between community patches. In addition, surface waters had significant spatial but non-significant environmental components controlling phylogenetic beta-diversity patterns, respectively. Conversely, the bottom layers were significantly correlated with environment but not with geographic distance. Thus, we observed different ecological mechanisms simultaneously acting on the same water body. Overall, bacterial endemicity is probably more common than previously thought, particularly in isolated and environmentally heterogeneous freshwater habitats. We argue for a microbial diversity conservation perspective still lacking in the global and local biodiversity preservation policies.	2011	61	10.1007/s00248-010-9775-6	YES	Dave	
Boyd ES; Hamilton TL; Spear JR; Lavin M; Peters JW	[FeFe]-hydrogenase in Yellowstone National Park: evidence for dispersal limitation and phylogenetic niche conservatism	ISME JOURNAL	Hydrogen (H-2) has an important role in the anaerobic degradation of organic carbon and is the basis for many syntrophic interactions that commonly occur in microbial communities. Little is known, however, with regard to the biotic and/or abiotic factors that control the distribution and phylogenetic diversity of organisms which produce H-2 in microbial communities. In this study, we examined the [FeFe]-hydrogenase gene (hydA) as a proxy for fermentative bacterial H-2 production along physical and chemical gradients in various geothermal springs in Yellowstone National Park (YNP), WY, USA. The distribution of hydA in YNP geothermal springs was constrained by pH to environments co-inhabited by oxygenic phototrophs and to environments predicted to have low inputs of abiotic H-2. The individual HydA asssemblages from YNP springs were more closely related when compared with randomly assembled communities, which suggests ecological filtering. Model selection approaches revealed that geographic distance was the best explanatory variable to predict the phylogenetic relatedness of HydA communities. This evinces the dispersal limitation imposed by the geothermal spring environment on HydA phylogenetic diversity even at small spatial scales. pH differences between sites is the second highest ranked explanatory variable of HydA phylogenetic relatedness, which suggests that the ecology related to pH imposes strong phylogenetic niche conservatism. Collectively, these results indicate that pH has imposed strong niche conservatism on fermentative bacteria and that, within a narrow pH realm, YNP springs are dispersal limited with respect to fermentative bacterial communities. The ISME Journal (2010) 4, 1485-1495; doi:10.1038/ismej.2010.76; published online 10 June 2010	2010	4	10.1038/ismej.2010.76	YES	Dave	
Marshall MM; Amos RN; Henrich VC; Rublee PA	Developing SSU rDNA metagenomic profiles of aquatic microbial communities for environmental assessments	ECOLOGICAL INDICATORS	Five water samples from three sources, two municipal reservoirs in central North Carolina and Toolik Lake in Alaska, were processed to conduct a comparative survey of microbial small subunit rDNA sequences. Genomic DNA was extracted and amplified by PCR using universal SSU rDNA primers to generate 16S and 18S rDNA clone libraries and 50 clones from each library were sequenced and placed in operational taxonomic units (OTUs). Through this recovery and analysis of SSU rRNA genes, a metagenomic profile of the microbial community emerged for each environmental sample. Analyses of these profiles, including species diversity estimates and rank-abundance curves, revealed that approximately 64% of prokaryotic OTUs and 80% of eukaryotic OTUs were novel. Diversity estimates were consistent with predicted ecosystem characteristics: they were greater for the mesotrophic to eutrophic temperate lakes, than for the oligotrophic arctic lake. Sample comparisons showed that community similarity declined as geographic distance between sites increased. Real-time quantitative PCR results showed that OTUs which had been recovered from only one library were actually present in other samples, but at much lower frequencies, suggesting that many, if not most, microorganisms are cosmopolitan. Together, these results support the potential value of using the microbial community as an indicator of local environmental conditions. In other words, it may be realistic to monitor water quality using a single, comprehensive suite of microorganisms by analyzing patterns of relative abundance. (C) 2007 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2008	8	10.1016/j.ecolind.2007.04.007	YES	Dave	
Beier S; Witzel KP; Marxsen J	Bacterial community composition in central European running waters examined by temperature gradient gel electrophoresis and sequence analysis of 16S rRNA genes	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	The bacterial community composition in small streams and a river in central Germany was examined by temperature gradient gel electrophoresis (TGGE) with PCR products of 16S rRNA gene fragments and sequence analysis. Complex TGGE band patterns suggested high levels of diversity of bacterial species in all habitats of these environments. Cluster analyses demonstrated distinct differences among the communities in stream and spring water, sandy sediments, biofilms on stones, degrading leaves, and soil. The differences between stream water and sediment were more significant than those between sites within the same habitat along the stretch from the stream source to the mouth. TGGE data from an entire stream course suggest that, in the upper reach of the stream, a special suspended bacterial community is already established and changes only slightly downstream. The bacterial communities in water and sediment in an acidic headwater with a pH below 5 were highly similar to each other but deviated distinctly from the communities at the other sites. As ascertained by nucleotide sequence analysis, stream water communities were dominated by Betaproteobacteria (one-third of the total bacteria), whereas sediment communities were composed mainly of Betaproteobacteria and members of the Fibrobacteres/Acidobacteria group (each accounting for about 25% of bacteria). Sequences obtained from bacteria from water samples indicated the presence of typical cosmopolitan freshwater organisms. TGGE bands shared between stream and soil samples, as well as sequences found in bacteria from stream samples that were related to those of soil bacteria, demonstrated the occurrence of some species in both stream and soil habitats. Changes in bacterial community composition were correlated with geographic distance along a stream, but in comparisons of different streams and rivers, community composition was correlated only with environmental conditions.	2008	74	10.1128/AEM.00327-07	YES	Dave	
Hartel PG; Myoda SP; Ritter KJ; Kuntz RL; Rodgers K; Entry JA; Wey SAV; Schroder EC; Calle J; Lacourt M; Thies JE; Reilly JP; Fuhrmann JJ	Geographic sharing of ribotype patterns in Enterococcus faecalis for bacterial source tracking	JOURNAL OF WATER AND HEALTH	The limited host range of Enterococcus faecalis may reduce its clonal diversity and thereby increase its geographic sharing of ribotype patterns. Such sharing would be advantageous for bacterial source tracking (BST). We determined the geographic sharing of ribotype patterns in 752 Ent. faecalis isolates obtained primarily from wastewater treatment plants in Delaware (15 locations; 490 isolates), Georgia (2 locations; 48 isolates), Idaho (1 location; 118 isolates), New York (2 locations; 48 isolates), and Puerto Rico (2 locations; 48 isolates). Isolates were ribotyped with a RiboPrinter. When pooled across all locations and analyzed at a similarity index of 100% and a tolerance level of 1.00%, the 752 Ent. faecalis isolates yielded 652 different ribotypes, of which 429 (66%) were unshared. Even when the matching criterion was relaxed by decreasing the tolerance level from 1% to 10% or lowering the similarity cutoff from 100% to 90%, half or almost half of the ribotypes were unshared. A Mantel test of zero correlation showed no statistically significant correlation between ribotype patterns and geographic distance among the 32 samples (one location at one time) at either the 1.00% (P = 0.91) or 10.00% (P = 0.83) tolerance levels. Therefore, the percentage of ribotype patterns shared between two locations did not increase as the distance between locations decreased. in the case of BST, a permanent host origin database sufficiently large to encompass these ribotype patterns would be time-consuming and expensive to construct.	2007	5	10.2166/wh.2007.003	YES	Dave	
Horner-Devine MC; Lage M; Hughes JB; Bohannan BJM	A taxa-area relationship for bacteria	NATURE	A positive power-law relationship between the number of species in an area and the size of that area has been observed repeatedly in plant and animal communities(1). This species - area relationship, thought to be one of the few laws in ecology(2), is fundamental to our understanding of the distribution of global biodiversity. However, such a relationship has not been reported for bacteria, and little is known regarding the spatial distribution of bacteria, relative to what is known of plants and animals(3). Here we describe a taxa - area relationship for bacteria over a scale of centimetres to hundreds of metres in salt marsh sediments. We found that bacterial communities located close together were more similar in composition than communities located farther apart, and we used the decay of community similarity with distance to show that bacteria can exhibit a taxa - area relationship. This relationship was driven primarily by environmental heterogeneity rather than geographic distance or plant composition.	2004	432	10.1038/nature03073	YES	Dave	
Dai WF; Zhang JJ; Tu QC; Deng Y; Qiu QF; Xiong JB	Bacterioplankton assembly and interspecies interaction indicating increasing coastal eutrophication	CHEMOSPHERE	Anthropogenic perturbations impose negative effects on coastal ecosystems, such as increasing levels of eutrophication. Given the biogeochemical significance of microorganisms, understanding the processes and mechanisms underlying their spatial distribution under changing environmental conditions is critical. To address this question, we examined how coastal bacterioplanlcton communities respond to increasing eutrophication levels created by anthropogenic perturbations. The results showed that the magnitude of changes in the bacterioplankton community compositions (BCCs) and the importance of deterministic processes that constrained bacterial assembly were closely associated with eutrophication levels. Moreover, increasing eutrophication significantly (P < 0.001) attenuated the distance decay rate, with a random spatial distribution of BCCs in the undisturbed location. In contrast, the complexity of interspecies interaction was enhanced under moderate eutrophication levels but declined under heavy eutrophication. Changes in the relative abundances of 27 bacterial families were significantly correlated with eutrophication levels. Notably, the pattern of enrichment or decrease for a given bacterial family was consistent with its known ecological functions. Our findings demonstrate that the magnitude of changes in BCCs and underlying determinism are dependent on eutrophication levels. However, the buffer capacity of bacterioplankton community is limited, with disrupted interspecies interaction occurring under heavy eutrophication. As such, bacterial assemblages are sensitive to changes in environmental conditions and could thus potentially serve as bio-indicators for increasing eutrophication. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2017	177	10.1016/j.chemosphere.2017.03.034	YES	Dave	
Niu LH; Li Y; Xu LL; Wang PF; Zhang WL; Wang C; Cai W; Wang LQ	Ignored fungal community in activated sludge wastewater treatment plants: diversity and altitudinal characteristics	ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE AND POLLUTION RESEARCH	Fungi are important contributors to the various functions of activated sludge wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs); however, the diversity and geographic characteristics of fungal populations have remained vastly unexplored. Here, quantitative polymerase chain reaction and 454 pyrosequencingwere combined to investigate the abundance and diversity of the activated sludge fungal communities from 18 full-scale municipal WWTPs in China. Phylogenetic taxonomy revealed that the members of the fungal communities were assigned to 7 phyla and 195 genera. Ascomycota and Basidiomycota were the most abundant phyla, dominated by Pluteus, Wickerhamiella, and Penicillium. Twenty-three fungal genera, accounting for 50.1 % of the total reads, were shared by 18 WWTPs and constituted a core fungal community. The fungal communities presented similar communitydiversitybut different community structures across the WWTPs. Significant distance decay relationships were observed for the dissimilarity in fungal community structure and altitudinal distance between WWTPs. Additionally, the community evenness increased from 0.25 to 0.7 as the altitude increased. Dissolved oxygen and the C/N ratio were determined to be the most dominant contributors to the variation in fungal community structure via redundancy analysis. The observed data demonstrated the diverse occurrence of fungal species and gave a marked view of fungal community characteristics based on the previously unexplored fungal communities in activated sludge WWTPs.	2017	24	10.1007/s11356-016-8137-4	YES	Dave	
Taketani RG; Lanconi MD; Kavamura VN; Durrer A; Andreote FD; Melo IS	Dry Season Constrains Bacterial Phylogenetic Diversity in a Semi-Arid Rhizosphere System	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	The rhizosphere is viewed as a deterministic environment led by the interaction between plants and microorganisms. In the case of semi-arid plants, this interaction is strengthened by the harshness of the environment. We tested the hypothesis that dry season represents a constraint on the bacterial diversity of the rhizosphere from semi-arid plants. To accomplish this, we sampled two leguminous species at five locations during the dry and rainy seasons in the Caatinga biome and characterised bacterial community structures using qPCR and 16S rRNA sequencing. We found that the main differences between seasons were due to reduced phylogenetic diversity caused by dryness. Variation partitioning indicated that environmental characteristics significant impacts in beta-diversity. Additionally, distance decay relationship and taxa area relationship indicate a higher spatial turnover at the rainy season. During the dry season, decreased bacterial abundance is likely due to the selection of resistant or resilient microorganisms; with the return of the rain, the sensitive populations start to colonise the rhizosphere by a process that is strongly influenced by environmental characteristics. Thus, we propose that the reduction of PD and strong influence of environmental parameters on the assemblage of these communities make them prone to functional losses caused by climatic disturbances.	2017	73	10.1007/s00248-016-0835-4	YES	Dave	
Dai TJ; Zhang Y; Tang YS; Bai YH; Tao YL; Huang B; Wen DH	Identifying the key taxonomic categories that characterize microbial community diversity using full-scale classification: a case study of microbial communities in the sediments of Hangzhou Bay	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Coastal areas are land-sea transitional zones with complex natural and anthropogenic disturbances. Microorganisms in coastal sediments adapt to such disturbances both individually and as a community. The microbial community structure changes spatially and temporally under environmental stress. In this study, we investigated the microbial community structure in the sediments of Hangzhou Bay, a seriously polluted bay in China. In order to identify the roles and contribution of all microbial taxa, we set thresholds as 0.1% for rare taxa and 1% for abundant taxa, and classified all operational taxonomic units into six exclusive categories based on their abundance. The results showed that the key taxa in differentiating the communities are abundant taxa (AT), conditionally abundant taxa (CAT), and conditionally rare or abundant taxa (CRAT). A large population in conditionally rare taxa (CRT) made this category collectively significant in differentiating the communities. Both bacteria and archaea demonstrated a distance decay pattern of community similarity in the bay, and this pattern was strengthened by rare taxa, CRT and CRAT, but weakened by AT and CAT. This implied that the low abundance taxa were more deterministically distributed, while the high abundance taxa were more ubiquitously distributed.Based on a full-scale microbial taxa classification, the roles and contributions of key taxonomic categories in maintaining and altering microbial community structures in the sediments of Hangzhou Bay were recognized.Based on a full-scale microbial taxa classification, the roles and contributions of key taxonomic categories in maintaining and altering microbial community structures in the sediments of Hangzhou Bay were recognized.	2016	92	10.1093/femsec/fiw150	YES	Dave	
Johansen RB; Johnston P; Mieczkowski P; Perry GLW; Robeson MS; Burns BR; Vilgalys R	A native and an invasive dune grass share similar, patchily distributed, root-associated fungal communities	FUNGAL ECOLOGY	Fungi are ubiquitous occupiers of plant roots, yet the impact of host identity on fungal community composition is not well understood. Invasive plants may benefit from reduced pathogen impact when competing with native plants, but suffer if mutualists are unavailable. Root samples of the invasive dune grass Ammophila arenaria and the native dune grass Leymus mollis were collected from a Californian foredune. We utilised the Illumina MiSeq platform to sequence the ITS and LSU gene regions, with the SSU region used to target arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF). The two plant species largely share a fungal community, which is dominated by widespread generalists. Fungi detected on only one species were rare, accounting for a small proportion of the data. The SSU region recovered AMF from more samples and from more Glomeromycota lineages than ITS or LSU. A high degree of turnover among samples was observed, but there was no evidence for strong distance-decay. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd and British Mycological Society. All rights reserved.	2016	23	10.1016/j.funeco.2016.08.003	YES	Dave	
Barnes CJ; Maldonado C; Froslev TG; Antonelli A; Ronsted N	Unexpectedly High Beta-Diversity of Root-Associated Fungal Communities in the Bolivian Andes	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Bolivia is one of the most biologically diverse countries on the planet. Between the Andes and the Amazon drainage basin spans the Yungas, a vast forested region shown to be extremely species rich in macro-organisms. However, it remains unclear whether this high diversity is also reflected in microbial diversity. Here we assess the genetic, taxonomic and functional diversity of root-associated fungi surrounding Cinchona calisaya trees, a typical element of the intermediate altitudes of the Bolivian Yungas. We determine the relative effects of edaphic properties, climate, and geography in regulating fungal community assembly. We show that alpha-diversity for these fungal communities was similar to temperate and arid ecosystems, averaging 90.1 operational taxonomic units (OTUs) per sample, with reads predominantly assigned to the Ascomycota phylum and with a saprotrophic lifestyle. beta-diversity was calculated as the distance-decay rate, and in contrast to alpha-diversity, was exceptionally high with a rate of -0.407. Soil properties (pH and P) principally regulated fungal community assembly in an analogous manner to temperate environments, with pH and phosphorus explaining 7.8 and 7.2% of community variation respectively. Surprisingly, altitude does not influence community formation, and there is limited evidence that climate (precipitation and temperature) play a role. Our results suggest that sampling should be performed over a wide geographical and environmental range in order to capture the full root-associated fungal diversity in subtropical regions. This study sheds further light on the diversity and distribution of the worlds hidden biodiversity.	2016	7	10.3389/fmicb.2016.01377	YES	Dave	
Vacher C; Cordier T; Vallance J	Phyllosphere Fungal Communities Differentiate More Thoroughly than Bacterial Communities Along an Elevation Gradient	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY		2016	72	10.1007/s00248-016-0742-8	MAYBE	Dave	
Hao YQ; Zhao XF; Zhang DY	Field experimental evidence that stochastic processes predominate in the initial assembly of bacterial communities	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	To assess the relative importance of environmental selection, dispersal and stochastic processes in structuring ecological communities, we conducted a bacterial community assembly experiment using microcosms filled with sterile liquid medium under field conditions in the Inner Mongolian grasslands. Multiple replicate microcosms containing different carbon substrates were placed at nine locations across three spatial scales (10, 300 and 10 000 m distance between locations) in such a way that the environment of microcosms varies independently of the geographical distance. The operational taxonomic units within the experimental communities were assessed via the terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism techniques on the 10th and 17th days after the onset of the experiment. We found no evidence of distance decay in community similarity, and communities within a given location were more similar to each other regardless of environment than communities at other locations within the same spatial scale. Variance partitioning indicated that location explained more compositional variation in microbial communities than environment, particularly on the 17th day, despite that environment and location in combination could only explain less than half of the total variation. These results suggest that bacterial dispersal is not limited by distance in this experiment, and community assembly in microcosms is not environmentally determined but governed by stochastic processes.	2016	18	10.1111/1462-2920.12858	YES	Dave	
Hayden CJ; Beman JM	Microbial diversity and community structure along a lake elevation gradient in Yosemite National Park, California, USA	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Microbial communities are key components of lake ecosystems and play central roles in lake biogeochemical cycles. Freshwater lakes, in turn, have a disproportionate influence on global carbon and nitrogen cycling, while also acting as sentinels of environmental change. Determining what factors regulate microbial community dynamics and their relationship to lake biogeochemistry is therefore essential to understanding global change feedbacks. We used ILLUMINA sequencing of >2 million 16S rRNA genes to examine microbial community structure and diversity in relation to spatial, temporal and biogeochemical variation, within and across lakes located along a 871 m elevation gradient in Yosemite National Park, California, USA. We captured a rich microbial community that included many rare operational taxonomic units (OTUs), but was dominated by a few bacterial classes and OTUs frequently detected in other freshwater ecosystems. Neither richness, evenness nor overall diversity was directly related to elevation. However, redundancy analysis showed that changes in microbial community structure were significantly related to elevation. Along with sampling period and dissolved nutrient concentrations, 29% of the variation in community structure could be explained by measured variables - in congruence with studies in other lakes using different techniques. We also found a distance-decay relationship in microbial community structure across lakes, suggesting that both local environmental factors and dispersal play a role in structuring communities.	2016	18	10.1111/1462-2920.12938	YES	Dave	
Bahram M; Kohout P; Anslan S; Harend H; Abarenkov K; Tedersoo L	Stochastic distribution of small soil eukaryotes resulting from high dispersal and drift in a local environment	ISME JOURNAL	A central challenge in ecology is to understand the relative importance of processes that shape diversity patterns. Compared with aboveground biota, little is known about spatial patterns and processes in soil organisms. Here we examine the spatial structure of communities of small soil eukaryotes to elucidate the underlying stochastic and deterministic processes in the absence of environmental gradients at a local scale. Specifically, we focus on the fine-scale spatial autocorrelation of prominent taxonomic and functional groups of eukaryotic microbes. We collected 123 soil samples in a nested design at distances ranging from 0.01 to 64m from three boreal forest sites and used 454 pyrosequencing analysis of Internal Transcribed Spacer for detecting Operational Taxonomic Units of major eukaryotic groups simultaneously. Among the main taxonomic groups, we found significant but weak spatial variability only in the communities of Fungi and Rhizaria. Within Fungi, ectomycorrhizas and pathogens exhibited stronger spatial structure compared with saprotrophs and corresponded to vegetation. For the groups with significant spatial structure, autocorrelation occurred at a very fine scale (< 2m). Both dispersal limitation and environmental selection had a weak effect on communities as reflected in negative or null deviation of communities, which was also supported by multivariate analysis, that is, environment, spatial processes and their shared effects explained on average < 10% of variance. Taken together, these results indicate a random distribution of soil eukaryotes with respect to space and environment in the absence of environmental gradients at the local scale, reflecting the dominant role of drift and homogenizing dispersal.	2016	10	10.1038/ismej.2015.164	YES	Dave	
Rojo C; Mesquita-Joanes F; Monros JS; Armengol J; Sasa M; Bonilla F; Rueda R; Benavent-Corail J; Piculo R; Segura MM	Hydrology Affects Environmental and Spatial Structuring of Microalgal Metacommunities in Tropical Pacific Coast Wetlands	PLOS ONE	The alternating climate between wet and dry periods has important effects on the hydrology and therefore on niche-based processes of water bodies in tropical areas. Additionally, assemblages of microorganism can show spatial patterns, in the form of a distance decay relationship due to their size or life form. We aimed to test spatial and environmental effects, modulated by a seasonal flooding climatic pattern, on the distribution of microalgae in 30 wetlands of a tropical dry forest region: the Pacific coast of Costa Rica and Nicaragua. Three surveys were conducted corresponding to the beginning, the highest peak, and the end of the hydrological year during the wet season, and species abundance and composition of planktonic and benthic microalgae was determined. Variation partitioning analysis (as explained by spatial distance or environmental factors) was applied to each seasonal dataset by means of partial redundancy analysis. Our results show that microalgal assemblages were structured by spatial and environmental factors depending on the hydrological period of the year. At the onset of hydroperiod and during flooding, neutral effects dominated community dynamics, but niche-based local effects resulted in more structured algal communities at the final periods of desiccating water bodies. Results suggest that climate-mediated effects on hydrology can influence the relative role of spatial and environmental factors on metacommunities of microalgae. Such variability needs to be accounted in order to describe accurately community dynamics in tropical coastal wetlands.	2016	11	10.1371/journal.pone.0149505	MAYBE	Dave	
Hu WG; Zhang Q; Tian T; Li DY; Cheng G; Mu J; Wu QB; Niu FJ; Stegen JC; An LZ; Feng HY	Relative Roles of Deterministic and Stochastic Processes in Driving the Vertical Distribution of Bacterial Communities in a Permafrost Core from the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau, China	PLOS ONE	Understanding the processes that influence the structure of biotic communities is one of the major ecological topics, and both stochastic and deterministic processes are expected to be at work simultaneously in most communities. Here, we investigated the vertical distribution patterns of bacterial communities in a 10-m-long soil core taken within permafrost of the Qing-hai-Tibet Plateau. To get a better understanding of the forces that govern these patterns, we examined the diversity and structure of bacterial communities, and the change in community composition along the vertical distance (spatial turnover) from both taxonomic and phylogenetic perspectives. Measures of taxonomic and phylogenetic beta diversity revealed that bacterial community composition changed continuously along the soil core, and showed a vertical distance-decay relationship. Multiple stepwise regression analysis suggested that bacterial alpha diversity and phylogenetic structure were strongly correlated with soil conductivity and pH but weakly correlated with depth. There was evidence that deterministic and stochastic processes collectively drived bacterial vertically-structured pattern. Bacterial communities in five soil horizons (two originated from the active layer and three from permafrost) of the permafrost core were phylogenetically random, indicator of stochastic processes. However, we found a stronger effect of deterministic processes related to soil pH, conductivity, and organic carbon content that were structuring the bacterial communities. We therefore conclude that the vertical distribution of bacterial communities was governed primarily by deterministic ecological selection, although stochastic processes were also at work. Furthermore, the strong impact of environmental conditions ( for example, soil physicochemical parameters and seasonal freeze-thaw cycles) on these communities underlines the sensitivity of permafrost microorganisms to climate change and potentially subsequent permafrost thaw.	2015	10	10.1371/journal.pone.0145747	YES	Dave	
Liang YT; Zhang X; Zhou JZ; Li GH	Long-term oil contamination increases deterministic assembly processes in soil microbes	ECOLOGICAL APPLICATIONS	The mechanisms that drive microbial turnover in time and space have received considerable attention but remain unclear, especially for situations with anthropogenic perturbation. To understand the impact of long-term oil contamination on microbial spatial turnover, 100 soil samples were taken from five oil exploration fields located in different geographic regions across China. The microbial functional diversity was analyzed with a high-throughput functional gene array, GeoChip. Our results indicated that soil microbial -diversity (richness and Shannon diversity index) decreased significantly with contamination. All contaminated and uncontaminated samples exhibited significant spatial autocorrelation between microbial community similarity and spatial distance, as described by a distance-decay relationship (DDR). However, long-term oil exposure flattened the slopes of the DDRs of all of the functional genes and each functional group involved in C/N/P/S cycling, particularly of those involved in contaminant degradation. The relative importance of deterministic and stochastic processes in microbial assembly was determined. The decrease in microbial spatial turnover with long-term oil contamination was coupled with an increase in the proportion of deterministic processes that structured microbial assembly based on null model analysis. The results indicated long-term oil contamination significantly affects soil microbial community spatial structure by acting as an environmental filter to decrease the regional differences distinguishing soil microbial communities.	2015	25	10.1890/14-1672.1	YES	Dave	
Monier A; Comte J; Babin M; Forest A; Matsuoka A; Lovejoy C	Oceanographic structure drives the assembly processes of microbial eukaryotic communities	ISME JOURNAL	Arctic Ocean microbial eukaryote phytoplankton form subsurface chlorophyll maximum (SCM), where much of the annual summer production occurs. This SCM is particularly persistent in the Western Arctic Ocean, which is strongly salinity stratified. The recent loss of multiyear sea ice and increased particulate-rich river discharge in the Arctic Ocean results in a greater volume of fresher water that may displace nutrient-rich saltier waters to deeper depths and decrease light penetration in areas affected by river discharge. Here, we surveyed microbial eukaryotic assemblages in the surface waters, and within and below the SCM. In most samples, we detected the pronounced SCM that usually occurs at the interface of the upper mixed layer and Pacific Summer Water (PSW). Poorly developed SCM was seen under two conditions, one above PSW and associated with a downwelling eddy, and the second in a region influenced by the Mackenzie River plume. Four phylogenetically distinct communities were identified: surface, pronounced SCM, weak SCM and a deeper community just below the SCM. Distance-decay relationships and phylogenetic structure suggested distinct ecological processes operating within these communities. In the pronounced SCM, picophytoplanktons were prevalent and community assembly was attributed to water mass history. In contrast, environmental filtering impacted the composition of the weak SCM communities, where heterotrophic Picozoa were more numerous. These results imply that displacement of Pacific waters to greater depth and increased terrigenous input may act as a control on SCM development and result in lower net summer primary production with a more heterotroph dominated eukaryotic microbial community.	2015	9	10.1038/ismej.2014.197	YES	Dave	
Oliver AE; Newbold LK; Whiteley AS; van der Gast CJ	Marine bacterial communities are resistant to elevated carbon dioxide levels	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY REPORTS	It is well established that the release of anthropogenic-derived CO2 into the atmosphere will be mainly absorbed by the oceans, with a concomitant drop in pH, a process termed ocean acidification. As such, there is considerable interest in how changes in increased CO2 and lower pH will affect marine biota, such as bacteria, which play central roles in oceanic biogeochemical processes. Set within an ecological framework, we investigated the direct effects of elevated CO2, contrasted with ambient conditions on the resistance and resilience of marine bacterial communities in a replicated temporal seawater mesocosm experiment. The results of the study strongly indicate that marine bacterial communities are highly resistant to the elevated CO2 and lower pH conditions imposed, as demonstrated from measures of turnover using taxa-time relationships and distance-decay relationships. In addition, no significant differences in community abundance, structure or composition were observed. Our results suggest that there are no direct effects on marine bacterial communities and that the bacterial fraction of microbial plankton holds enough flexibility and evolutionary capacity to withstand predicted future changes from elevated CO2 and subsequent ocean acidification.	2014	6	10.1111/1758-2229.12159	YES	Dave	
Chi XL; Tang ZY; Fang JY	Patterns of phylogenetic beta diversity in Chinas grasslandsin in relation to geographical and environmental distance	BASIC AND APPLIED ECOLOGY	Patterns and determinants of beta (beta-) diversity can be used to explore the underlying mechanisms regulating community assembly. Despite being the most commonly used measure of beta-diversity, species turnover does not consider the evolutionary differences among species, treating all species equally. Incorporating information on phylogenetic non-independence or relatedness among species in the calculation of beta-diversity may substantially advance our understanding of the ecological and evolutionary mechanisms structuring communities. Here, we investigate the relative influence of geographical distance and differences in environmental conditions (environmental distance) on the phylogenetic beta-diversity between grassland communities expanding 4000 km across the Tibetan Plateau, the Inner Mongolia Plateau and the Xinjiang Autonomous Region in China. Both observed and standardized effect size of phylogenetic beta-diversity were significantly correlated with geographical and environmental distance across all regions. However, the effect of geographical distance on the standardized effect size of phylogenetic beta-diversity disappeared when environmental distance was controlled. We also found that within different regions, the effect of environmental distance on both observed and standardized effect size of phylogenetic beta-diversity was more significant than geographical distance. Among environmental variables, climate played a more important role in shaping observed phylogenetic beta-diversity across and within regions, and standardized effect size of phylogenetic beta-diversity across regions. Soil properties played a more important role in shaping standardized effect size of phylogenetic beta-diversity within regions. The phylogenetic beta-diversity of species from dicot and monocot clades exhibited similar patterns along environmental and geographical distance. The results suggest that at the study scale, phylogeny of grassland communities in China is predominantly structured by environmental filtering, and the dominant environmental factors may be scale-dependent.	2014	15	10.1016/j.baae.2014.07.003	YES	Dave	
Vilar AG; van Dam H; van Loon EE; Vonk JA; van Der Geest HG; Admiraal W	Eutrophication decreases distance decay of similarity in diatom communities	FRESHWATER BIOLOGY	The distance-decay relationship has been claimed to be a predictor for biological diversity because it unites several ecological phenomena such as dispersal ability and environmental structure. The effect of long-term disturbances on distance decay, however, has been widely overlooked, especially for microorganisms. We examine the effect of eutrophication on the distance-decay relationship in communities of attached diatoms in three peatland areas: mesotrophic, eutrophic and hypertrophic. The study follows a spatially explicit sampling scheme, collecting evenly spaced samples along 6-km sampling tracks. The three areas shared 24% of the total number of species, but the different nutrient levels in the three areas are reflected by the prominence of low profile and planktonic diatom species. Our study demonstrates that eutrophication can affect distance-decay relationships by decreasing turnover rates in microorganisms. Diatom communities are shown to be constrained by both environmental and spatial features, whose relative importance depends on the degree of eutrophication. Under eutrophic conditions, species are filtered from the regional species pool and community structure responds strongly to environmental factors (water chemistry variables and depth), while in mesotrophic environments, purely spatial processes play a prominent role in structuring diatom communities. These findings reveal that homogenisation of communities triggered by environmental disturbance is an ecological phenomenon of importance in the microbial world.	2014	59	10.1111/fwb.12363	YES	Dave	
Pinto AJ; Schroeder J; Lunn M; Sloan W; Raskin L	Spatial-Temporal Survey and Occupancy-Abundance Modeling To Predict Bacterial Community Dynamics in the Drinking Water Microbiome	MBIO	Bacterial communities migrate continuously from the drinking water treatment plant through the drinking water distribution system and into our built environment. Understanding bacterial dynamics in the distribution system is critical to ensuring that safe drinking water is being supplied to customers. We present a 15-month survey of bacterial community dynamics in the drinking water system of Ann Arbor, MI. By sampling the water leaving the treatment plant and at nine points in the distribution system, we show that the bacterial community spatial dynamics of distance decay and dispersivity conform to the layout of the drinking water distribution system. However, the patterns in spatial dynamics were weaker than those for the temporal trends, which exhibited seasonal cycling correlating with temperature and source water use patterns and also demonstrated reproducibility on an annual time scale. The temporal trends were driven by two seasonal bacterial clusters consisting of multiple taxa with different networks of association within the larger drinking water bacterial community. Finally, we show that the Ann Arbor data set robustly conforms to previously described interspecific occupancy abundance models that link the relative abundance of a taxon to the frequency of its detection. Relying on these insights, we propose a predictive framework for microbial management in drinking water systems. Further, we recommend that long-term microbial observatories that collect high-resolution, spatially distributed, multiyear time series of community composition and environmental variables be established to enable the development and testing of the predictive framework. IMPORTANCE Safe and regulation-compliant drinking water may contain up to millions of microorganisms per liter, representing phylogenetically diverse groups of bacteria, archaea, and eukarya that affect public health, water infrastructure, and the aesthetic quality of water. The ability to predict the dynamics of the drinking water microbiome will ensure that microbial contamination risks can be better managed. Through a spatial-temporal survey of drinking water bacterial communities, we present novel insights into their spatial and temporal community dynamics and recommend steps to link these insights in a predictive framework for microbial management of drinking water systems. Such a predictive framework will not only help to eliminate microbial risks but also help to modify existing water quality monitoring efforts and make them more resource efficient. Further, a predictive framework for microbial management will be critical if we are to fully anticipate the risks and benefits of the beneficial manipulation of the drinking water microbiome.	2014	5	10.1128/mBio.01135-14	YES	Dave	
Lee JE; Buckley HL; Etienne RS; Lear G	Both species sorting and neutral processes drive assembly of bacterial communities in aquatic microcosms	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	A focus of ecology is to determine drivers of community assembly. Here, we investigate effects of immigration and species sorting (environmental selection) on structuring aquatic bacterial communities in both colonised and previously uncolonised environments. We used nonsterilised and presterilised water from three chemically distinct ponds to establish microcosms, which were opened for 12, 24, 48, 96 or 167h and then closed again to allow airborne bacterial immigration and subsequent succession. Community similarity, richness, evenness and the parameters of a neutral model were investigated after 167h. Immigration appeared to govern the assembly of communities in the presterilised water as there were no significant differences in evenness among microcosm communities containing water from each pond. Statistical estimation of neutral model parameters confirmed these findings, because the estimated immigration rate changed significantly with time of exposure to immigration. Species sorting also occurred because significant differences in community similarity (for presterilised and nonsterilised communities) and evenness (only for nonsterilised communities) were detected among microcosms containing different pond water; the magnitude of these differences was greater for communities in nonsterilised microcosms. Our study provides evidence for both processes being important during the colonisation of aquatic environments and presents a novel way to apply the neutral model.	2013	86	10.1111/1574-6941.12161	MAYBE	Dave	
Stock A; Edgcomb V; Orsi W; Filker S; Breiner HW; Yakimov MM; Stoeck T	Evidence for isolated evolution of deep-sea ciliate communities through geological separation and environmental selection	BMC MICROBIOLOGY	Background: Deep hypersaline anoxic basins (DHABs) are isolated habitats at the bottom of the eastern Mediterranean Sea, which originate from the ancient dissolution of Messinian evaporites. The different basins have recruited their original biota from the same source, but their geological evolution eventually constituted sharp environmental barriers, restricting genetic exchange between the individual basins. Therefore, DHABs are unique model systems to assess the effect of geological events and environmental conditions on the evolution and diversification of protistan plankton. Here, we examine evidence for isolated evolution of unicellular eukaryote protistan plankton communities driven by geological separation and environmental selection. We specifically focused on ciliated protists as a major component of protistan DHAB plankton by pyrosequencing the hypervariable V4 fragment of the small subunit ribosomal RNA. Geospatial distributions and responses of marine ciliates to differential hydrochemistries suggest strong physical and chemical barriers to dispersal that influence the evolution of this plankton group. Results: Ciliate communities in the brines of four investigated DHABs are distinctively different from ciliate communities in the interfaces (haloclines) immediately above the brines. While the interface ciliate communities from different sites are relatively similar to each other, the brine ciliate communities are significantly different between sites. We found no distance-decay relationship, and canonical correspondence analyses identified oxygen and sodium as most important hydrochemical parameters explaining the partitioning of diversity between interface and brine ciliate communities. However, none of the analyzed hydrochemical parameters explained the significant differences between brine ciliate communities in different basins. Conclusions: Our data indicate a frequent genetic exchange in the deep-sea water above the brines. The isolated island character of the different brines, that resulted from geological events and contemporary environmental conditions, create selective pressures driving evolutionary processes, and with time, lead to speciation and shape protistan community composition. We conclude that community assembly in DHABs is a mixture of isolated evolution (as evidenced by small changes in V4 primary structure in some taxa) and species sorting (as indicated by the regional absence/presence of individual taxon groups on high levels in taxonomic hierarchy).	2013	13	10.1186/1471-2180-13-150	YES	Dave	
Sayer EJ; Wagner M; Oliver AE; Pywell RF; James P; Whiteley AS; Heard MS	Grassland management influences spatial patterns of soil microbial communities	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	Soil micro-organisms play a vital role in grassland ecosystem functioning but little is known about the effects of grassland management on spatial patterns of soil microbial communities. We compared plant species composition with terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) fingerprints of soil bacterial and fungal communities in unimproved, restored and improved wet grasslands. We assessed community composition of soil micro-organisms at distances ranging from 0.01 m to 100 m and determined taxa-area relationships from field- to landscape level. We show that land management type influenced bacterial but not fungal community composition. However, extensive grassland management to restore aboveground diversity affected spatial patterns of soil fungi. We found distinct distance-decay and small-scale aggregation of fungal populations in extensively managed grasslands restored from former arable use. There were no clear spatial patterns in bacterial communities at the field-scale. However, at the landscape level there was a moderate increase in bacterial taxa and a strong increase in fungal taxa with the number of sites sampled. Our results suggest that grassland management affects soil microbial communities at multiple scales; the observed small-scale variation may facilitate plant species coexistence and should be taken into account in field studies of soil microbial communities. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2013	61	10.1016/j.soilbio.2013.02.012	YES	Dave	
Feinstein LM; Blackwood CB	The spatial scaling of saprotrophic fungal beta diversity in decomposing leaves	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	Assembly of fungal communities remains poorly understood in part because of the daunting range of spatial scales that may be involved in this process. Here, we use individual leaves as a natural sampling unit, comprising spatially distinct habitat and/or resource patches with unique histories and suites of resources. Spatial patterns in fungal beta diversity were tested for consistency with the metacommunity paradigms of species sorting and neutral dynamics. Thirty senesced leaves were collected from the forest floor (O horizon) in replicate upland forest, riparian forest and vernal pool habitats. We quantified spatial distance between leaves, and fungal community composition was assayed by terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism. Significant distance-decay relationships were detected at all but one upland site. This is the first study where changes in fungal community composition were quantified across discrete adjacent habitat patches, providing evidence that fungal distance decay is operational at a scale of centimetres. Although leaves of differing lignin contents were sampled from each site, leaf type was not consistently important in explaining variation in fungal community composition. However, depth of a leaf within the forest floor significantly influenced community composition at five of six sites. Environmental heterogeneity associated with depth could include moisture gradients, relative influence of soil or spore colonization, and impact of forest floor biotic community (i.e. collembola and earthworms). Because the influence of spatial distance and depth on fungal community composition could not be disentangled, both species-sorting and neutral processes may be embedded within the distance-decay relationships that we found.	2013	22	10.1111/mec.12160	YES	Dave	
Rodrigues JLM; Pellizari VH; Mueller R; Baek K; Jesus ED; Paula FS; Mirza B; Hamaoui GS; Tsai SM; Feigl B; Tiedje JM; Bohannan BJM; Nusslein K	Conversion of the Amazon rainforest to agriculture results in biotic homogenization of soil bacterial communities	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	The Amazon rainforest is the Earths largest reservoir of plant and animal diversity, and it has been subjected to especially high rates of land use change, primarily to cattle pasture. This conversion has had a strongly negative effect on biological diversity, reducing the number of plant and animal species and homogenizing communities. We report here that microbial biodiversity also responds strongly to conversion of the Amazon rainforest, but in a manner different from plants and animals. Local taxonomic and phylogenetic diversity of soil bacteria increases after conversion, but communities become more similar across space. This homogenization is driven by the loss of forest soil bacteria with restricted ranges (endemics) and results in a net loss of diversity. This study shows homogenization of microbial communities in response to human activities. Given that soil microbes represent the majority of biodiversity in terrestrial ecosystems and are intimately involved in ecosystem functions, we argue that microbial biodiversity loss should be taken into account when assessing the impact of land use change in tropical forests.	2013	110	10.1073/pnas.1220608110	YES	Dave	
Soininen J; Kongas P	Analysis of nestedness in freshwater assemblages-patterns across species and trophic levels	FRESHWATER SCIENCE	Nestedness measures the degree to which species assemblages are proper subsets of larger assemblages within a metacommunity. We analyzed nestedness in 20 freshwater data sets, each for a single metacommunity within a drainage basin. First, we examined the degree of nestedness across local assemblages and identified major environmental correlates of nestedness at sites. Second, we examined whether nestedness showed concordance among trophic levels. Third, we examined whether nested and idiosyncratic species (i.e., species that have unpredictable gaps in their distribution) differed ecologically and showed dissimilar distribution patterns along geographical and environmental gradients. Degrees of nestedness, obtained using a metric by Almeida-Neto et al. (2008), ranged from 22.9 to 57.0, with 11 matrices showing significant nestedness. Lake bacteria had a higher degree of nestedness than did phytoor zooplankton. The degree of nestedness was related mainly to water temperature, conductivity, and trophic status of the water, results suggesting that habitat quality may be an important predictor of nestedness, but was only weakly concordant among trophic levels within metacommunities. However, averaged across all metacommunities, nestedness values between phytoplankton and zooplankton and between phytoplankton and bacteria were positively correlated. Nested and idiosyncratic species did not differ in their spatial and environmental distribution patterns. Freshwater planktonic assemblages were characterized by a relatively low degree of nestedness. The low congruence in nestedness among trophic levels suggests that assemblages typically show independent gradients of nestedness. This result indicates that assemblages respond dissimilarly to driving forces, such as habitat quality, or that nestedness in freshwaters might be related to stochastic colonization. Conserving only the most diverse sites may not protect rare species because of the relatively low degree of nestedness in fresh waters.	2012	31	10.1899/12-043.1	YES	Dave	
Finkel OM; Burch AY; Elad T; Huse SM; Lindow SE; Post AF; Belkin S	Distance-Decay Relationships Partially Determine Diversity Patterns of Phyllosphere Bacteria on Tamarix Trees across the Sonoran Desert (vol 78, pg 6187, 2012)	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY		2012	78	10.1128/AEM.02505-12	YES	Dave	
Stegen JC; Lin XJ; Konopka AE; Fredrickson JK	Stochastic and deterministic assembly processes in subsurface microbial communities	ISME JOURNAL	A major goal of microbial community ecology is to understand the forces that structure community composition. Deterministic selection by specific environmental factors is sometimes important, but in other cases stochastic or ecologically neutral processes dominate. Lacking is a unified conceptual framework aiming to understand why deterministic processes dominate in some contexts but not others. Here we work toward such a framework. By testing predictions derived from general ecological theory we aim to uncover factors that govern the relative influences of deterministic and stochastic processes. We couple spatiotemporal data on subsurface microbial communities and environmental parameters with metrics and null models of within and between community phylogenetic composition. Testing for phylogenetic signal in organismal niches showed that more closely related taxa have more similar habitat associations. Community phylogenetic analyses further showed that ecologically similar taxa coexist to a greater degree than expected by chance. Environmental filtering thus deterministically governs subsurface microbial community composition. More importantly, the influence of deterministic environmental filtering relative to stochastic factors was maximized at both ends of an environmental variation gradient. A stronger role of stochastic factors was, however, supported through analyses of phylogenetic temporal turnover. Although phylogenetic turnover was on average faster than expected, most pairwise comparisons were not themselves significantly non-random. The relative influence of deterministic environmental filtering over community dynamics was elevated, however, in the most temporally and spatially variable environments. Our results point to general rules governing the relative influences of stochastic and deterministic processes across micro- and macro-organisms. The ISME Journal (2012) 6, 1653-1664; doi:10.1038/ismej.2012.22; published online 29 March 2012	2012	6	10.1038/ismej.2012.22	MAYBE	Dave	
Chytry M; Lososova Z; Horsak M; Uher B; Cejka T; Danihelka J; Fajmon K; Hajek O; Jurickova L; Kintrova K; Lanikova D; Otypkova Z; Rehorek V; Tichy L	Dispersal limitation is stronger in communities of microorganisms than macroorganisms across Central European cities	JOURNAL OF BIOGEOGRAPHY	Aim It is generally believed that communities of small organisms, or those with small propagules, are structured mainly by local niche-based processes, and less by dispersal limitation. Conversely, weaker environmental and stronger spatial structure, indicating dispersal limitation, are expected to occur more frequently in communities of large organisms. However, this hypothesis has rarely been tested by comparing spatial and environmental effects across groups of organisms of different size (or with different size of propagules) sampled at the same set of sites. Here, we test it in urban environments. Location Thirty-two cities in 10 countries of Central Europe and Benelux. Methods We compared effects of spatial location and climate on species composition of different groups of organisms sampled in corresponding types of urban habitats. The studied groups were: (1) subaerial cyanobacteria and algae, (2) vascular plants, (3) land snails; and subgroups of vascular plants with different life form and dispersal mode, namely: (4) herbs, (5) animal-dispersed trees and shrubs, and (6) wind-dispersed trees and shrubs. Data were analysed by variation partitioning based on redundancy analysis (RDA) with principal coordinates of neighbour matrices (PCNM). Eighteen PCNM eigenvectors (expressing spatial effects) and mean annual temperature, JulyJanuary temperature difference and annual precipitation sum (expressing environmental effects) were used as explanatory variables. Results Pure effects of climate on species composition, indicating niche-based processes, were not significant for any group or subgroup of the studied organisms. In contrast, pure effects of space, indicating dispersal limitation, were significant for all groups and subgroups except herbs. Surprisingly, the community of cyanobacteria/algae possessed much stronger spatial structure independent of climate than communities of larger organisms, although cyanobacteria/algae had the lowest beta diversity among the studied cities. Main conclusions We hypothesize that the community of subaerial cyanobacteria/algae is structured by natural processes which involve dispersal limitation, whereas communities of urban plants and snails are influenced by human-assisted dispersal of their propagules between cities, which results in weaker dispersal limitation. Our study indicates that dispersal vectors can be more important for community structure than size of organisms or of their propagules.	2012	39	10.1111/j.1365-2699.2011.02664.x	YES	Dave	
Wang JJ; Wu YC; Jiang HC; Li CH; Dong HL; Wu QL; Soininen J; Shen J	High beta diversity of bacteria in the shallow terrestrial subsurface	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	While there have been a vast number of studies on bacterial alpha diversity in the shallow terrestrial subsurface, beta diversity - how the bacterial community composition changes with spatial distance - has received surprisingly limited attention. Here, bacterial beta diversity and its controlling factors are investigated by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis and cloning of samples from a 700-cm-long sediment core, the lower half of which consisted of marine-originated sediments. According to canonical correspondence analysis with variation partitioning, contemporary environmental variables explain beta diversity in a greater proportion than depth. However, we also found that community similarity decayed significantly with spatial distance and the slopes of the distance-decay relationships are relatively high. The high beta diversity indicates that the bacterial distribution patterns are not only controlled by contemporary environments, but also related to historical events, that is, dispersal or depositional history. This is highlighted by the different beta diversity patterns among studied sediment layers. We thus conclude that the high beta diversity in the shallow terrestrial subsurface is a trade-off between historical events and environmental heterogeneity. Furthermore, we suggest that the high beta diversity of bacteria is likely to be recapitulated in other terrestrial sites because of the great frequency of high geochemical and/or historical variations along depth.	2008	10	10.1111/j.1462-2920.2008.01678.x	YES	Dave	
KAY D; MCDONALD A	REDUCTION OF COLIFORM BACTERIA IN 2 UPLAND RESERVOIRS - THE SIGNIFICANCE OF DISTANCE DECAY RELATIONSHIPS	WATER RESEARCH		1980	14	10.1016/0043-1354(80)90076-7	YES	Dave	
