AU	TI	SO	AB	PY	VL	DI
Yang, SZ; Liebner, S; Winkel, M; Alawi, M; Horn, F; Dorfer, C; Ollivier, J; He, JS; Jin, HJ; Kuhn, P; Schloter, M; Scholten, T; Wagner, D	In-depth analysis of core methanogenic communities from high elevation permafrost-affected wetlands	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	The organic carbon of permafrost affected soils is receiving particular attention with respect to its fate and potential feedback to global warming. The structural and activity changes of methanogenic communities in the degrading permafrost-affected wetlands on the Tibetan Plateau can serve as fundamental elements for modelling feedback interaction of ecosystems to climate change. Hence, we aimed at anticipating if and how the rapid environmental changes occurring especially on the high altitude Tibetan platform will affect methanogenic communities. We identified methanogenic community composition, activity and abundance in wetland soils with different hydrological settings, permafrost extent and soil properties and pinpoint the environmental controls. We show that despite a pronounced natural gradient, the Tibetan high elevation wetland soils host a large methanogenic core microbiome. Hydrogenotrophic methanogens, in particular Methanoregula, and H2-dependent methanogenesis were overall dominant although acetoclastic methanogens in addition to hydrogenotrophs were among the dominating taxa in a minerotrophic fen. Tracing the Methanoregula community of the Tibetan Plateau using public databases revealed its global relevance in natural terrestrial habitats. Unlike the composition, the activity and abundance of methanogens varied strongly in the studied soils with higher values in alpine swamps than in alpine meadows. This study indicates that in the course of current wetland and permafrost degradation and the loss in soil moisture, a decrease in the methane production potential is expected on the high Tibetan Plateau but it will not lead to pronounced changes within the methanogenic community structure. (C) 2017 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.	2017	111	10.1016/j.soilbio.2017.03.007
Geisen, S; Mitchell, EAD; Wilkinson, DM; Adl, S; Bonkowski, M; Brown, MW; Fiore-Donno, AM; Heger, TJ; Jassey, VEJ; Krashevska, V; Lahr, DJG; Marcisz, K; Mulot, M; Payne, R; Singer, D; Anderson, OR; Charman, DJ; Ekelund, F; Griffiths, BS; Ronn, R; Smirnov, A; Bass, D; Belbahri, L; Berney, C; Blandenier, Q; Chatzinotas, A; Clarholm, M; Dunthorn, M; Feest, A; Fernandez, LD; Foissner, W; Fournier, B; Gentekaki, E; Hajek, M; Helder, J; Jousset, A; Koller, R; Kumar, S; La Terza, A; Lamentowicz, M; Mazei, Y; Santos, SS; Seppey, CVW; Spiegel, FW; Walochnik, J; Winding, A; Lara, E	Soil protistology protistology rebooted: 30 fundamental questions to start with	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	Protists are the most diverse eukaryotes. These microbes are keystone organisms of soil ecosystems and regulate essential processes of soil fertility such as nutrient cycling and plant growth. Despite this, protists have received little scientific attention, especially compared to bacteria, fungi and nematodes in soil studies. Recent methodological advances, particularly in molecular biology techniques, have made the study of soil protists more accessible, and have created a resurgence of interest in soil protistology. This ongoing revolution now enables comprehensive investigations of the structure and functioning of soil protist communities, paving the way to a new era in soil biology. Instead of providing an exhaustive review, we provide a synthesis of research gaps that should be prioritized in future studies of soil protistology to guide this rapidly developing research area. Based on a synthesis of expert opinion we propose 30 key questions covering a broad range of topics including evolution, phylogenetics, functional ecology, macroecology, paleoecology, and methodologies. These questions highlight a diversity of topics that will establish soil protistology as a hub discipline connecting different fundamental and applied fields such as ecology, biogeography, evolution, plant-microbe interactions, agronomy, and conservation biology. We are convinced that soil protistology has the potential to be one of the most exciting frontiers in biology. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2017	111	10.1016/j.soilbio.2017.04.001
Kou, YP; Li, JB; Wang, YS; Li, CA; Tu, B; Yao, MJ; Li, XZ	Scale-dependent key drivers controlling methane oxidation potential in Chinese grassland soils	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	Methane (CH4) oxidation plays a critical role in mitigating global warming. However, the key environmental drivers shaping CH4 oxidation rate at regional and sub-regional scales in grassland ecosystems remain poorly understood. In this study, we collected soils from 21 sites at the regional scale across three steppes of China, including grasslands in Inner Mongolia Plateau (IMP), Xinjiang Autonomous Region (XAR) and Tibetan Plateau (TP). Potential CH4 oxidation rate was measured, and the compositions and abundances of methanotrophs were analyzed by quantitative PCR (qPCR) and Miseq sequencing technique. The factors controlling CH4 oxidation potential at regional and sub-regional scales were evaluated by means of partial least squares path modeling (PLS-PM) and multiple regression on distance matrices (MRM). The results showed that the compositions and abundances of methanotrophs varied at different sub-regions. Type I methanotrophs were predominant in soils from the Inner Mongolia steppe and Xinjiang Autonomous Region, whereas pxmA methanotrophs mainly distributed in the Tibetan alpine steppe soil. Measured environmental variables explained the variations of CH4 oxidation potential well at both regional and sub-regional scales in these Chinese grassland ecosystems. However, the contributions of different variables to CH4 oxidation potential were scale-dependent. At the regional scale, total nitrogen (TN) was the environmental variable that best explained the potential CH4 oxidation rate, and its influence might be mainly associated with its effects on plant growth and methanotrophic community traits. At sub-regional scales, the main controlling variables were total organic carbon (TOC) and soil texture in Inner Mongolia steppe, aridity index (AI) and mean annual temperature (MAT) in Xinjiang Autonomous Region, and TN in Tibetan alpine steppe. These results further suggested that the impacts of environmental variables on CH4 oxidation rate were realized either through their effects on methanotrophic communities, and/or by affecting soil properties in the grassland ecosystems. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2017	111	10.1016/j.soilbio.2017.04.005
Chen, YL; Xu, TL; Veresoglou, SD; Hu, HW; Hao, ZP; Hu, YJ; Liu, L; Deng, Y; Rillig, MC; Chen, BD	Plant diversity represents the prevalent determinant of soil fungal community structure across temperate grasslands in northern China	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	Fungi play an important regulating role in terrestrial ecosystem functioning. However, their biogeographic distribution patterns along combined gradients of plant communities and environmental variables across regional spatial scales remain poorly understood. This knowledge gap is particularly pronounced in arid and semi-arid grassland ecosystems, which occupy one third of the terrestrial surface of China. Here, a regional-scale field investigation was conducted to collect soil samples from 290 plots at 52 sites along a 4000 km transect in temperate grasslands of northern China to assess the distribution patterns of fungal communities. The high-throughput Illumina sequencing revealed that soil fungal communities were dominated by Ascomycota, Basidiomycota and Zygomycota across the temperate grasslands. Fungal richness increased with plant species richness and mean annual precipitation (MAP). Bray-Cutis dissimilarities in soil fungal community composition between sites were significantly correlated with plant community composition, geographical distance, and abiotic factors including MAP, mean annual temperature, soil pH, and soil organic carbon. Variation partitioning analysis revealed that variation in fungal community composition was mainly explained by plant community composition, followed by geographical distance and abiotic factors. Structural equation models further highlighted the significant role of plant species richness in determining soil fungal richness. Taken together, these results suggest that the regional-scale distribution pattern of soil fungal communities is predominantly mediated by plant community composition, and also by abiotic factors and geographical distance in arid and semi-arid temperate grasslands. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2017	110	10.1016/j.soilbio.2017.02.015
Lohan, KMP; Fleischer, RC; Carney, KJ; Holzer, KK; Ruiz, GM	Molecular characterisation of protistan species and communities in ships ballast water across three US coasts	DIVERSITY AND DISTRIBUTIONS	AimWe characterised protistan taxa in ships ballast water (BW) arriving to port systems across three U.S. coasts. Our goals were to compare (1) diversity and (2) community composition of protists in BW among and between port systems. LocationChesapeake Bay in Virginia (Port of Hampton Roads), Galveston Bay in Texas (Ports of Texas City, Houston and Bayport) and Prince William Sound in Alaska (Port of Valdez). MethodsWe collected 61 BW samples from 39 vessels from May to August 2013. We conducted amplicon-based high-throughput sequencing (HTS) using the hypervariable V4 domain of the small subunit (SSU) gene of the ribosomal RNA (rRNA) complex to identify protistan taxa. ResultsWe detected 8,561 OTUs from protistan taxa, including 35 taxonomic groups. We found high protistan diversity in the BW entering all three port systems, with the dominant taxa belonging to the Alveolata, Rhizaria and Stramenopiles. Thirty-eight taxa were found in high relative abundance (>10,000 sequences), and some were recovered from multiple samples within and across ports, indicating both a high relative abundance and frequency of introduction events. The composition of the protistan communities entering each of the port systems appeared to vary depending on BW source, with those entering Valdez being consistently more similar to each other than those entering other port systems. Main conclusionsThis study is the most comprehensive assessment of protistan diversity in BW and has important implications for microbial biogeography and invasions. Ships BW is importing distinct and diverse protistan communities to U.S. coasts with high propagule pressure for some taxa, creating opportunity for invasion by novel taxa. Further, our results demonstrate the broad-scale movement of marine protists that has occurred through BW, highlighting a discrepancy between the large magnitude of introductions and limited number of known microbial invasions.	2017	23	10.1111/ddi.12550
Wang, XB; Lu, XT; Yao, J; Wang, ZW; Deng, Y; Cheng, WX; Zhou, JZ; Han, XG	Habitat-specific patterns and drivers of bacterial beta-diversity in Chinas drylands	ISME JOURNAL	The existence of biogeographic patterns among most free-living microbial taxa has been well established, yet little is known about the underlying mechanisms that shape these patterns. Here, we examined soil bacterial beta-diversity across different habitats in the drylands of northern China. We evaluated the relative importance of environmental factors versus geographic distance to a distance-decay relationship, which would be explained by the relative effect of basic ecological processes recognized as drivers of diversity patterns in macrobial theoretical models such as selection and dispersal. Although the similarity of bacterial communities significantly declined with increasing geographic distance, the distance-decay slope and the relative importance of factors driving distance-decay patterns varied across different habitats. A strong distance-decay relationship was observed in the alpine grassland, where the community similarity was influenced only by the environmental factors. In contrast, geographic distance was solely responsible for community similarity in the desert. Even the average compositional similarity among locations in the desert was distinctly lower compared with those in other habitats. We found no evidence that dispersal limitation strongly influenced the beta-diversity of bacterial communities in the desert grassland and typical grassland. Together, our results provide robust evidence of habitat specificity for microbial diversity patterns and their underlying drivers. Our findings suggest that microorganisms also have multiple drivers of diversity patterns and some of which may be parallel to some fundamental processes for explaining biodiversity patterns in macroorganisms.	2017	11	10.1038/ismej.2017.11
Suzuki, S; Kaneko, R; Kodama, T; Hashihama, F; Suwa, S; Tanita, I; Furuya, K; Hamasaki, K	Comparison of community structures between particle-associated and free-living prokaryotes in tropical and subtropical Pacific Ocean surface waters	JOURNAL OF OCEANOGRAPHY	The subtropical and tropical regions of the Pacific Ocean are less productive than other oceanic regions. Although particle association should be an important strategy for heterotrophic prokaryotes to survive in such environments, we have little information on particle-associated (PA) prokaryotes in these regions. The specific aim of this study was to determine bacterial and archaeal community structures in the PA assemblage in comparison to the free-living (FL) assemblage in the North Pacific Subtropical Gyre, the South Pacific Subtropical Gyre, and an eastern equatorial region of the Pacific Ocean. Community profiles and phylogenetic identities were obtained by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis, 454-pyrosequencing, and cloning followed by Sanger sequencing of 16Sr RNA gene amplicons. The distribution patterns of some abundant groups in three regions and two lifestyles (PA and FL) are shown in this study. Also, the PA community structures of bacteria differed from the FL ones and exhibited higher diversity than the FL ones, while the archaeal community structures did not show significant differences between PA and FL assemblages. We found that specific phylotypes of Gammaproteobacteria and Flavobacteria were abundant in PA bacterial assemblages, suggesting that they prefer to attach and consume particulate organic matter. In summary, the surface seawater PA assemblages represent very different bacterial and archaeal community structures between three different oceanic regions, each of which had distinct PA and FL community structures. These results imply that environmental factors determine microbial community structures.	2017	73	10.1007/s10872-016-0410-0
Regan, K; Stempfhuber, B; Schloter, M; Rasche, F; Prati, D; Philippot, L; Boeddinghaus, RS; Kandeler, E; Marhan, S	Spatial and temporal dynamics of nitrogen fixing, nitrifying and denitrifying microbes in an unfertilized grassland soil	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	The microbial groups of nitrogen fixers, ammonia oxidizers, and denitrifiers largely drive the inorganic nitrogen cycle in temperate terrestrial ecosystems. Their spatial and temporal dynamics, however, vary depending on the studied scale. The present study aimed to fill a knowledge gap by providing an explicit picture of spatial and temporal dynamics of a subset of these soil microorganisms at the plot scale. We selected an unfertilized perennial grassland, where nitrogen cycling is considered to be efficient and tightly coupled to plant growth. At six times over one growing season 60 soil samples were taken from a 10 m x 10 m area and abundances of marker genes for total archaea and bacteria (16S rRNA), nitrogen fixing bacteria (nifH), ammonia oxidizing archaea (amoA AOA) and bacteria (amoA AOB), and denitrifying bacteria (nirS, nirK and nosZ) were determined by qPCR. Potential nitrification activity (PNA) and denitrifying enzyme activity (DEA) were determined. Seasonal changes in abundance patterns of marker genes were detected, and were associated with changes in substrate availability associated with plant growth stages. Potential nitrification and denitrification enzyme activities were strongly spatially structured at the studied scale, corresponding to periods of rapid plant growth, June and October, and their spatial distributions were similar, providing visual evidence of highly localized spatial and temporal conditions at this scale. Temporal variability in the N -cycling communities versus the stability of their respective potential activities provided evidence of both short-lived temporal niche partitioning and a degree of microbial functional redundancy. Our results indicate that in an unfertilized grassland, at the meter scale, abundances of microbial N-cycling organisms can exhibit transient changes, while nitrogen cycling processes remain stable. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2017	109	10.1016/j.soilbio.2016.11.011
Lacap-Bugler, DC; Lee, KK; Archer, S; Gillman, LN; Lau, MCY; Leuzinger, S; Lee, CK; Maki, T; McKay, CP; Perrott, JK; de los Rios-Murillo, A; Warren-Rhodes, KA; Hopkins, DW; Pointing, SB	Global Diversity of Desert Hypolithic Cyanobacteria	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Global patterns in diversity were estimated for cyanobacteria-dominated hypolithic communities that colonize ventral surfaces of quartz stones and are common in desert environments. A total of 64 hypolithic communities were recovered from deserts on every continent plus a tropical moisture sufficient location. Community diversity was estimated using a combined t-RFLP fingerprinting and high throughput sequencing approach. The t-RFLP analysis revealed desert communities were different from the single non-desert location. A striking pattern also emerged where Antarctic desert communities were clearly distinct from all other deserts. Some overlap in community similarity occurred for hot, cold and tundra deserts. A further observation was that the producer-consumer ratio displayed a significant negative correlation with growing season, such that shorter growing seasons supported communities with greater abundance of producers, and this pattern was independent of macroclimate. High-throughput sequencing of 16S rRNA and nifH genes from four representative samples validated the t-RFLP study and revealed patterns of taxonomic and putative diazotrophic diversity for desert communities from the Taklimakan Desert, Tibetan Plateau, Canadian Arctic and Antarctic. All communities were dominated by cyanobacteria and among these 21 taxa were potentially endemic to any given desert location. Some others occurred in all but the most extreme hot and polar deserts suggesting they were relatively less well adapted to environmental stress. The t-RFLP and sequencing data revealed the two most abundant cyanobacterial taxa were Phormidium in Antarctic and Tibetan deserts and Chroococcidiopsis in hot and cold deserts. The Arctic tundra displayed a more heterogenous cyanobacterial assemblage and this was attributed to the maritime-influenced sampling location. The most abundant heterotrophic taxa were ubiquitous among samples and belonged to the Acidobacteria, Actinobacteria, Bacteroidetes, and Proteobacteria. Sequencing using nitrogenase gene-specific primers revealed all putative diazotrophs were Proteobacteria of the orders Burkholderiales, Rhizobiales, and Rhodospirillales. We envisage cyanobacterial carbon input to the system is accompanied by nitrogen fixation largely from non-cyanobacterial taxa. Overall the results indicate desert hypoliths worldwide are dominated by cyanobacteria and that growing season is a useful predictor of their abundance. Differences in cyanobacterial taxa encountered may reflect their adaptation to different moisture availability regimes in polar and non-polar deserts.	2017	8	10.3389/fmicb.2017.00867
Kellogg, CA; Goldsmith, DB; Gray, MA	Biogeographic Comparison of Lophelia-Associated Bacterial Communities in the Western Atlantic Reveals Conserved Core Microbiome	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Over the last decade, publications on deep-sea corals have tripled. Most attention has been paid to Lophelia pertusa, a globally distributed scleractinian coral that creates critical three-dimensional habitat in the deep ocean. The bacterial community associated with L. pertusa has been previously described by a number of studies at sites in the Mediterranean Sea, Norwegian fjords, off Great Britain, and in the Gulf of Mexico (GOM). However, use of different methodologies prevents direct comparisons in most cases. Our objectives were to address intra-regional variation and to identify any conserved bacterial core community. We collected samples from three distinct colonies of L. pertusa at each of four locations within the western Atlantic: three sites within the GOM and one off the east coast of the United States. Amplicon libraries of 16S rRNA genes were generated using primers targeting the V4-V5 hypervariable region and 454 pyrosequencing. The dominant phylum was Proteobacteria (75-96%). At the family level, 80-95% of each sample was comprised of five groups: Pirellulaceae, Pseudonocardiaceae, Rhodobacteraceae, Sphingomonadaceae, and unclassified Oceanospirillales. Principal coordinate analysis based on weighted UniFrac distances showed a clear distinction between the GOM and Atlantic samples. Interestingly, the replicate samples from each location did not always cluster together, indicating there is not a strong site-specific influence. The core bacterial community, conserved in 100% of the samples, was dominated by the operational taxonomic units of genera Novosphingobium and Pseudonocardia, both known degraders of aromatic hydrocarbons. The sequence of another core member, Propionibacterium, was also found in prior studies of L. pertusa from Norway and Great Britain, suggesting a role as a conserved symbiont. By examining more than 40,000 sequences per sample, we found that GOM samples were dominated by the identified conserved core sequences, whereas open Atlantic samples had a much higher proportion of locally consistent bacteria. Further, predictive functional profiling highlights the potential for the L. pertusa microbiome to contribute to chemoautotrophy, nutrient cycling, and antibiotic production.	2017	8	10.3389/fmicb.2017.00796
Arocha-Garza, HF; Canales-Del Castillo, R; Eguiarte, LE; Souza, V; De la Torre-Zavala, S	High diversity and suggested endemicity of culturable Actinobacteria in an extremely oligotrophic desert oasis	PEERJ	The phylum Actinobacteria constitutes one of the largest and anciently divergent phyla within the Bacteria domain. Actinobacterial diversity has been thoroughly researched in various environments due to its unique biotechnological potential. Such studies have focused mostly on soil communities, but more recently marine and extreme environments have also been explored, finding rare taxa and demonstrating dispersal limitation and biogeographic patterns for Streptomyces. To test the distribution of Actinobacteria populations on a small scale, we chose the extremely oligotrophic and biodiverse Cuatro Cienegas Basin (CCB), an endangered oasis in the Chihuahuan desert to assess the diversity and uniqueness of Actinobacteria in the Churince System with a culture-dependent approach over a period of three years, using nine selective media. The 16S rDNA of putative Actinobacteria were sequenced using both bacteria universal and phylum-specific primer pairs. Phylogenetic reconstructions were performed to analyze OTUs clustering and taxonomic identification of the isolates in an evolutionary context, using validated type species of Streptomyces from previously phylogenies as a reference. Rarefaction analysis for total Actinobacteria and for Streptomyces isolates were performed to estimate species richness in the intermediate lagoon (IL) in the oligotrophic Churince system. A total of 350 morphologically and nutritionally diverse isolates were successfully cultured and characterized as members of the Phylum Actinobacteria. A total of 105 from the total isolates were successfully subcultured, processed for DNA extraction and 16S-rDNA sequenced. All strains belong to the order Actinomycetales, encompassing 11 genera of Actinobacteria; the genus Streptomyces was found to be the most abundant taxa in all the media tested throughout the 3-year sampling period. Phylogenetic analysis of our isolates and another 667 reference strains of the family Streptomycetaceae shows that our isolation effort produced 38 unique OTUs in six new monophyletic clades. This high biodiversity and uniqueness of Actinobacteria in an extreme oligotrophic environment, which has previously been reported for its diversity and endemicity, is a suggestive sign of microbial biogeography of Actinobacteria and it also represents an invaluable source of biological material for future ecological and bioprospecting studies.	2017	5	10.7717/peerj.3247
Boscaro, V; Rossi, A; Vannini, C; Verni, F; Fokin, SI; Petroni, G	Strengths and Biases of High-Throughput Sequencing Data in the Characterization of Freshwater Ciliate Microbiomes	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Molecular surveys of eukaryotic microbial communities employing high-throughput sequencing (HTS) techniques are rapidly supplanting traditional morphological approaches due to their larger data output and reduced bench work time. Here, we directly compare morphological and Illumina data obtained from the same samples, in an effort to characterize ciliate faunas from sediments in freshwater environments. We show how in silico processing affects the final outcome of our HTS analysis, providing evidence that quality filtering protocols strongly impact the number of predicted taxa, but not downstream conclusions such as biogeography patterns. We determine the abundance distribution of ciliates, showing that a small fraction of abundant taxa dominates read counts. At the same time, we advance reasons to believe that biases affecting HTS abundances may be significant enough to blur part of the underlying biological picture. We confirmed that the HTS approach detects many more taxa than morphological inspections, and highlight how the difference varies among taxonomic groups. Finally, we hypothesize that the two datasets actually correspond to different conceptions of diversity, and consequently that neither is entirely superior to the other when investigating environmental protists.	2017	73	10.1007/s00248-016-0912-8
Brigido, C; Glick, BR; Oliveira, S	Survey of Plant Growth-Promoting Mechanisms in Native Portuguese Chickpea Mesorhizobium Isolates	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Rhizobia may possess other plant growth-promoting mechanisms besides nitrogen fixation. These mechanisms and the tolerance to different environmental factors, such as metals, may contribute to the use of rhizobia inocula to establish a successful legume-rhizobia symbiosis. Our goal was to characterize a collection of native Portuguese chickpea Mesorhizobium isolates in terms of plant growth-promoting (PGP) traits and tolerance to different metals as well as to investigate whether these characteristics are related to the biogeography of the isolates. The occurrence of six PGP mechanisms and tolerance to five metals were evaluated in 61 chickpea Mesorhizobium isolates previously obtained from distinct provinces in Portugal and assigned to different species clusters. Chickpea microsymbionts show high diversity in terms of PGP traits as well as in their ability to tolerate different metals. All isolates synthesized indoleacetic acid, 50 isolates produced siderophores, 19 isolates solubilized phosphate, 12 isolates displayed acid phosphatase activity, and 22 exhibited cytokinin activity. Most isolates tolerated Zn or Pb but not Ni, Co, or Cu. Several associations between specific PGP mechanisms and the province of origin and species clusters of the isolates were found. Our data suggests that the isolates tolerance to metals and ability to solubilize inorganic phosphate and to produce IAA may be responsible for the persistence and distribution of the native Portuguese chickpea Mesorhizobium species. Furthermore, this study revealed several chickpea microsymbionts with potential as PGP rhizobacteria as well as for utilization in phytoremediation strategies.	2017	73	10.1007/s00248-016-0891-9
Thornhill, DJ; Howells, EJ; Wham, DC; Steury, TD; Santos, SR	Population genetics of reef coral endosymbionts (Symbiodinium, Dinophyceae)	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	Symbiodinium is a diverse genus of unicellular dinoflagellate symbionts associating with various marine protists and invertebrates. Although the broadscale diversity and phylogenetics of the Symbiodinium complex is well established, there have been surprisingly few data on fine-scale population structure and biogeography of these dinoflagellates. Yet population-level processes contribute strongly to the biology of Symbiodinium, including how anthropogenic-driven global climate change impacts these symbionts and their host associations. Here, we present a synthesis of population-level characteristics for Symbiodinium, with an emphasis on how phylogenetic affinities, dynamics within and among host individuals, and a propensity towards clonality shape patterns on and across reefs. Major inferences include the following: (i) Symbiodinium populations within individual hosts are comprised mainly of cells belonging to a single or few genetic clones. (ii) Symbiont populations exhibit a mixed mode of reproduction, wherein at least one sexual recombination event occurs in the genealogy between most genotypes, but clonal propagation predominates overall. (iii) Mutualistic Symbiodinium do not perpetually persist outside their hosts, instead undergoing turnover and replacement via the continuous shedding of viable clonal cells from host individuals. (iv) Symbiont populations living in the same host, but on different reefs, are often genetically subdivided, suggesting low connectivity, adaptation to local conditions, or prolific asexual reproduction and low effective population sizes leading to disproportionate success within and among hosts. Overall, this synthesis forms a basis for future investigations of coral symbiosis ecology and evolution as well as delimitation of species boundaries in Symbiodinium and other eukaryotic microorganisms.	2017	26	10.1111/mec.14055
Murphy, HA	Harnessing the power of digital droplet PCR to conduct real-world microbial competitions	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY RESOURCES	The budding yeast, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, has a long and storied history as a model organism for genetic, cellular and molecular biological research. More recently, researchers have sought to understand the ecology and evolution of its sister species, Saccharomyces paradoxus, in part to put our vast knowledge of the model yeast into its natural context (Replansky et al.2008). However, the research tools have been limited, and most investigations into natural populations have either been descriptions of patterns of biogeography or taken the organism back into the laboratory for mating, growth and competition assays (Kuehne et al. 2007; Miller & Greig 2015; Murphy & Zeyl 2015; Samani et al. 2015). The link between what occurs out in the real world and what is measured in the laboratory has not yet been made, as so much is still unknown about the natural history of these yeasts. In this issue of Molecular Ecology Resources, Boynton et al. (2016) take a major step towards bridging laboratory studies with field ecological research. By isolating a panel of S. paradoxus strains from a wooded area, culturing them in the laboratory, reintroducing pairs back into their habitat on natural substrate and monitoring the frequency of individual strains using digital droplet PCR, the researchers were able to use the framework of laboratory-based microbial competitions, but conduct them in a natural setting. While there is still more to learn about how to optimize this approach, it represents an exciting step in microbial ecological research and should prove an important tool for other species and numerous ecological questions.	2017	17	10.1111/1755-0998.12611
Petroff, AP; Tejera, F; Libchaber, A	Subsurface Microbial Ecosystems: A Photon Flux and a Metabolic Cascade	JOURNAL OF STATISTICAL PHYSICS	Mud is a porous medium containing a high density of diverse microorganisms. It is out of equilibrium as the energy from a photon flux is dissipated by a cascade of biochemical reactions, mediated by the metabolisms of the constituent organisms. Despite its complexity, microbes in nature self-organize into simple reproducible patterns. We present two experiments in which the dynamics of natural mud coming to steady state are observed and modeled. In the first, the oxygen gradient produced by cyanobacteria in an imposed light gradient is measured. In the second, a thin front of oxygen-consuming microbes forms at the penetration depth of oxygen and moves with the changing oxygen gradient.	2017	167	10.1007/s10955-016-1700-z
Yao, Q; Liu, JJ; Yu, ZH; Li, YS; Jin, J; Liu, XB; Wang, GH	Changes of bacterial community compositions after three years of biochar application in a black soil of northeast China	APPLIED SOIL ECOLOGY	Although biochar has been widely evaluated as a soil-amendment, the response of soil bacterial community to biochar addition, especially after several years addition, has not yet been fully understood. Here, we studied the effect of a single addition of biochar on bacterial community compositions in a black soil of northeast China. The biochar was added with dosages of 0%, 2%, 4% and 8% of the total mass of the top 20 cm soils in the spring of 2012, and soil samples were collected seasonally four times in 2014. The abundance and composition of bacterial community were determined using quantitative real-time PCR and Illumina MiSeq sequencing methods, respectively. The results showed that soil pH, moisture, total C, total N, total P, NO3--N, available K and the C/N ratio significantly increased with biochar addition, but that soil bulk density and total K content decreased. The bacterial abundance increased with biochar addition, especially at a higher dosage. The biochar addition increased the alpha-diversity of soil bacterial community and changed the bacterial community compositions. Taxonomic analyses showed that Proteobacteria, Acidobacteria, Actinobacteria, Chloroflexi and Bacteroidetes were the dominant phyla in this study, and the relative abundances of Acidobacteria decreased but Chloroflexi increased with biochar addition. Additionally, biochar addition increased the relative abundances of Bacillus and Pedomicrobium, but decreased the relative abundance of Bradyrhizobium. Canonical correspondence analysis indicated that bacterial community compositions were closely associated with soil parameters such as pH, total C, total N and total K. Given the changes of these soil parameters were highly correlated with the amounts of biochar addition, which suggested that the impacts of long-term biochar amendment on the soil bacterial community were linked to the alteration of soil physiochemical properties. (C) 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2017	113	10.1016/j.apsoil.2017.01.007
Likar, M; Stres, B; Rusjan, D; Potisek, M; Regvar, M	Ecological and conventional viticulture gives rise to distinct fungal and bacterial microbial communities in vineyard soils	APPLIED SOIL ECOLOGY	The new ecological approach to viticulture emphasises ecologically sound grape production and recognizes the importance of grapevine (Vitis vinifera) interactions with soil microbial communities. Due to different viticulture measures, distinctly different microbial communities can form, which affects the potentially beneficial interactions with the grapevines. Therefore, the objective of the present study was to identify differences in the community structures of fungal and bacterial soil communities on a landscape scale, and to relate these to the type and duration of soil management, and to within vineyard habitats. Soil fungal and bacterial communities were screened in vineyards with different soil management (ecological, conventional) and ages (3, 10, 35 years). In each vineyard, 35 rhizosphere soil samples were acquired from beneath the grapevines and between the rows, using a grid covering of 240 m(2) per vineyard. Automated ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis of the microbial soil samples was carried out, with the microbial lifeforms compared among the vineyards (bacteria vs. fungi). There was high variability in the local microbial diversity for all of the sampled plots, with significant differences among the vineyards under ecological and conventional soil management. In comparison to fungi, soil management and age of vineyard had significantly greater impact on bacteria. Microbial communities showed no general overlap in diversity spots or simultaneous changes in community composition along the sampling grids. These results suggest that the microbial communities reflect the influences of highly localised biogeographic factors and vineyard management, with the most profound effects observed after deep tillage. Furthermore, fungal and bacterial communities forming in the vineyard soils appear to be influenced by different sets of environmental factors. (C) 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2017	113	10.1016/j.apsoi1.2017.02.007
Holland, BS; Chiaverano, LM; Howard, CK	Diminished fitness in an endemic Hawaiian snail in nonnative host plants	ETHOLOGY ECOLOGY & EVOLUTION	Hawaiis diverse achatinellid tree snails occur almost exclusively in host trees and shrubs that are native to the Hawaiian Archipelago. A few exceptions to this pattern are known, where an arboreal gastropod population has persisted in introduced plants. On Oahu, Hawaii, the last known population of the single-island endemic snail Auriculella diaphana has persisted in nonnative plants for multiple decades, leading to the following question: are there differences in the relative fitness of native gastropods in native versus nonnative host plants? To address this we conducted laboratory trials with A. diaphana in three treatment groups, one with the two dominant nonnative host plants from their current distribution, another group with two primary native host plant species, and a third treatment maintained in cages with a mixture of equal parts of both the nonnative and native plants. Trials were replicated in two 16-week intervals, with 100 snails. Relative fitness was assessed among treatments as survival and reproductive output (number of eggs produced). Results demonstrated that while survival of adult snails was equivalent across treatments (100%), fecundity was significantly higher in cages where native plants were available. Egg production was 20.05-fold and 14.95-fold greater in treatments with 100% and 50% native host plants, respectively, than in treatments with nonnative plants only. These results suggest that native snails persisting in nonnative host plants experience sublethal stress, reflected in a dramatic reduction in reproductive output. Snails in treatments with mixed native and nonnative plants also showed significantly higher reproduction than those in nonnative plant cages. We suggest that the observed decreased fecundity was due to the poor nutritional value of the microbial phyllosphere of nonnative vegetation, and that translocation of this and related species occurring in nonnative habitat to nearby native host plants will be beneficial in terms of relative fitness.	2017	29	10.1080/03949370.2016.1143406
Becerra-Castro, C; Lopes, AR; Teixeira, S; Silva, MEF; Pimenta, E; Manaia, CM; Nunes, OC	Characterization of bacterial communities from Masseiras, a unique Portuguese greenhouse agricultural system	ANTONIE VAN LEEUWENHOEK INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF GENERAL AND MOLECULAR MICROBIOLOGY	Masseiras is an ancient Portuguese agriculture system, where soil was developed from sand dunes enriched with seaweeds over more than a century. Due to the importance for the local economy, this system evolved for greenhouse structures. In this study we compared the bacterial community composition and structure of Masseiras soil, aiming at assessing the potential impact of different agricultural practices. The bulk soil of two greenhouses (following or not the recommended agriculture good practices, FGP and NFGP, respectively) was compared based on their physicochemical properties and bacterial community. In both FGP and NFGP, Proteobacteria, Acidobacteria, Actinobacteria, Bacteroidetes, Firmicutes, and Gemmatimonadetes were in a proportion of 5:1:1:1:1:1. However, the bacterial community of soil FGP was richer and more diverse than that of soil NFGP. Members of the classes Bacilli and Gemm-1, with higher relative abundance in NFGP and FGP, respectively, were those contributing most for distinguishing the bacterial communities of both soils. The differences in the structure of the bacterial communities correlated (Mantel test) with some soil physicochemical properties, such as electrical conductivity and nitrate and Zn contents, which were significantly higher in soil NFGP than in soil FGP.	2017	110	10.1007/s10482-017-0833-7
Becker, JC; Rodibaugh, KJ; Hahn, D; Nowlin, WH	Bacterial community composition and carbon metabolism in a subtropical riverscape	HYDROBIOLOGIA	To better understand the interaction between the abundance and composition of bacterial communities, physicochemical conditions, and bacterial metabolic function, we studied the patterns of bacterial community composition and metabolic function in relation to nutrients, land use, and network position in a large subtropical river. Composition varied across the watershed, and with variation in nutrients in particular. Although these changes were partially driven by overall abundance, bacterial groups responded to nutrients differently across the watershed. Most groups were correlated with suspended particulate materials, yet, abundance of beta-proteobacteria was highest with elevated nitrate, and abundance of Actinobacteria was highest with elevated soluble reactive phosphate. Land use weakly influenced composition. Landscape position influenced composition, with downstream mainstem riverine sites differing from more upstream and tributary sites. Both production and respiration were influenced by temperature and organic carbon, but we found that production and growth efficiency were not directly related. Production peaked at intermediate levels of abundance, but no groups were correlated with production. Respiration by free-floating bacteria was positively correlated with proportional abundance of alpha-proteobacteria, gamma-proteobacteria, and Actinobacteria. Finally, we found that land use was a relatively weak influence on community composition, but that variation in nutrients was relatively important for both composition and function.	2017	792	10.1007/s10750-016-3058-2
Bailly-Bechet, M; Martins-Simoes, P; Szollosi, GJ; Mialdea, G; Sagot, MF; Charlat, S	How Long Does Wolbachia Remain on Board?	MOLECULAR BIOLOGY AND EVOLUTION	Wolbachia bacteria infect about half of all arthropods, with diverse and extreme consequences ranging from sex-ratio distortion and mating incompatibilities to protection against viruses. These phenotypic effects, combined with efficient vertical transmission from mothers to offspring, satisfactorily explain the invasion dynamics of Wolbachia within species. However, beyond the species level, the lack of congruence between the host and symbiont phylogenetic trees indicates that Wolbachia horizontal transfers and extinctions do happen and underlie its global distribution. But how often do they occur? And has the Wolbachia pandemic reached its equilibrium? Here, we address these questions by inferring recent acquisition/loss events from the distribution of Wolbachia lineages across the mitochondrial DNA tree of 3,600 arthropod specimens, spanning 1,100 species from Tahiti and surrounding islands. We show that most events occurred within the last million years, but are likely attributable to individual level variation (e.g., imperfect maternal transmission) rather than population level variation (e.g., Wolbachia extinction). At the population level, we estimate that mitochondria typically accumulate 4.7% substitutions per site during an infected episode, and 7.1% substitutions per site during the uninfected phase. Using a Bayesian time calibration of the mitochondrial tree, these numbers translate into infected and uninfected phases of approximately 7 and 9 million years. Infected species thus lose Wolbachia slightly more often than uninfected species acquire it, supporting the view that its present incidence, estimated here slightly below 0.5, represents an epidemiological equilibrium.	2017	34	10.1093/molbev/msx073
Ojanguren-Affilastro, AA; Adilardi, RS; Mattoni, CI; Ramirez, MJ; Ceccarelli, FS	Dated phylogenetic studies of the southernmost American buthids (Scorpiones; Buthidae)	MOLECULAR PHYLOGENETICS AND EVOLUTION	A dated molecular phylogeny of the southernmost American species of the family Buthidae, based on two nuclear and two mitochondrial genes, is presented. Based on this study, analyzed species of the subgenus Tityus (Archaeotityus) are neither sister to the remaining species of the genus Tityus, nor are they closely related to the New World microbuthids with decreasing neobothriotaxy. Analyzed species of the subgenus Tityus do not form a monophyletic group. Based on ancestral area estimation analyses, known geoclimatic events of the region and comparisons to the diversification processes of other epigean groups from the area, a generalized hypothesis about the patterns of historical colonization processes of the family Buthidae in southern South America is presented. Furthermore, for the first time, a Paleogene-African ingression route for the colonization of America by the family Buthidae is proposed as a plausible hypothesis. (C) 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.	2017	110	10.1016/j.ympev.2017.02.018
Kong, HH; Segre, JA	The Molecular Revolution in Cutaneous Biology: Investigating the Skin Microbiome	JOURNAL OF INVESTIGATIVE DERMATOLOGY	Building upon the knowledge garnered from investigations utilizing traditional culturing methods, advances in sequencing technologies have catalyzed a revolution in studying human-associated microbes: bacteria, fungi and viruses. Skin microbiome research in healthy individuals and patients with dermatologic disorders has provided insights into the complexity and biogeography of human skin microbes. The continual developments in sequencing and analyses will provide increasingly sophisticated tools to interrogate human-associated microbes, ultimately to improve our understanding of health and disease.	2017	137	10.1016/j.jid.2016.07.045
Tucker, CM; Cadotte, MW; Carvalho, SB; Davies, TJ; Ferrier, S; Fritz, SA; Grenyer, R; Helmus, MR; Jin, LS; Mooers, AO; Pavoine, S; Purschke, O; Redding, DW; Rosauer, DF; Winter, M; Mazel, F	A guide to phylogenetic metrics for conservation, community ecology and macroecology	BIOLOGICAL REVIEWS	The use of phylogenies in ecology is increasingly common and has broadened our understanding of biological diversity. Ecological sub-disciplines, particularly conservation, community ecology and macroecology, all recognize the value of evolutionary relationships but the resulting development of phylogenetic approaches has led to a proliferation of phylogenetic diversity metrics. The use of many metrics across the sub-disciplines hampers potential meta-analyses, syntheses, and generalizations of existing results. Further, there is no guide for selecting the appropriatemetric for a given question, and different metrics are frequently used to address similar questions. To improve the choice, application, and interpretation of phylo-diversity metrics, we organize existing metrics by expanding on a unifying framework for phylogenetic information. Generally, questions about phylogenetic relationships within or between assemblages tend to ask three types of question: how much; how different; or how regular? We show that these questions reflect three dimensions of a phylogenetic tree: richness, divergence, and regularity. We classify 70 existing phylo-diversity metrics based on their mathematical form within these three dimensions and identify anchor representatives: for alpha-diversity metrics these are PD (Faiths phylogenetic diversity), MPD (mean pairwise distance), and VPD (variation of pairwise distances). By analysing mathematical formulae and using simulations, we use this framework to identify metrics that mix dimensions, and we provide a guide to choosing and using the most appropriate metrics. We show that metric choice requires connecting the research question with the correct dimension of the framework and that there are logical approaches to selecting and interpreting metrics. The guide outlined herein will help researchers navigate the current jungle of indices.	2017	92	10.1111/brv.12252
Sommer, U; Peter, KH; Genitsaris, S; Moustaka-Gouni, M	Do marine phytoplankton follow Bergmanns rule sensu lato?	BIOLOGICAL REVIEWS	Global warming has revitalized interest in the relationship between body size and temperature, proposed by Bergmanns rule 150 years ago, one of the oldest manifestations of a biogeography of traits. We review biogeographic evidence, results from clonal cultures and recent micro-and mesocosm experiments with naturally mixed phytoplankton communities regarding the response of phytoplankton body size to temperature, either as a single factor or in combination with other factors such as grazing, nutrient limitation, and ocean acidification. Where possible, we also focus on the comparison between intraspecific size shifts and size shifts resulting from changes in species composition. Taken together, biogeographic evidence, community-level experiments and single-species experiments indicate that phytoplankton average cell sizes tend to become smaller in warmer waters, although temperature is not necessarily the proximate environmental factor driving size shifts. Indirect effects via nutrient supply and grazing are important and often dominate. In a substantial proportion of field studies, resource availability is seen as the only factor of relevance. Interspecific size effects are greater than intraspecific effects. Direct temperature effects tend to be exacerbated by indirect ones, if warming leads to intensified nutrient limitation or copepod grazing while ocean acidification tends to counteract the temperature effect on cell size in non-calcifying phytoplankton. We discuss the implications of the temperature-related size trends in a global-warming context, based on known functional traits associated with phytoplankton size. These are a higher affinity for nutrients of smaller cells, highest maximal growth rates of moderately small phytoplankton (ca. 102 mu m(3)), size-related sensitivities for different types of grazers, and impacts on sinking rates. For a phytoplankton community increasingly dominated by smaller algae we predict that: (i) a higher proportion of primary production will be respired within the microbial food web; (ii) a smaller share of primary production will be channeled to the classic phytoplankton-crustacean zooplankton-fish food chain, thus leading to decreased ecological efficiency from a fish-production point of view; (iii) a smaller share of primary production will be exported through sedimentation, thus leading to decreased efficiency of the biological carbon pump.	2017	92	10.1111/brv.12266
Yao, MJ; Rui, JP; Niu, HS; Hedenec, P; Li, JB; He, ZL; Wang, JM; Cao, WD; Li, XZ	The differentiation of soil bacterial communities along a precipitation and temperature gradient in the eastern Inner Mongolia steppe	CATENA	Understanding the differentiation of soil bacterial communities under precipitation and temperature gradients is crucial for assessing the impacts of environmental filters on ecosystem structure and function. Here we investigated spatial variations of bacterial communities along a precipitation and temperature transect in the eastern Inner Mongolia steppe, China. The aims are to understand the biogeographic pattern and key drivers shaping soil bacterial communities along the transect. Our results shoved that the soil bacterial community along the 451-km transect exhibited the distance-decay relationship, decreasing in community similarity with geographic distance. Obvious changes in the bacterial community structure occurred at an annual precipitation from 215 to 261 mm, which was close to the boundary between arid and semi-arid systems. The relative abundances of Proteobacteria, Bacteroidetes, and Acidobacteria increased with precipitation, while those of Actinobacteria, Chloroflexi, and Gemmatimonadetes decreased. Environmental filtering was observed to be the key in shaping bacterial biogeographic patterns, and climate conditions exert indirect effects on soil bacterial communities mainly through direct effects on soil properties. Soil pH and plant coverage were important to soil bacterial communities in both arid and semi-arid steppes. Our findings provided insights for understanding the linkages among geographic distance, environmental filters, and soil bacterial communities in Eurasian steppe ecosystems. (C) 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2017	152	10.1016/j.catena.2017.01.007
Cadier, M; Sourisseau, M; Gorgues, T; Edwards, CA; Memery, L	Assessing spatial and temporal variability of phytoplankton communities composition in the Iroise Sea ecosystem (Brittany, France): A 3D modeling approach Part 2: Linking summer mesoscale distribution of phenotypic diversity to hydrodynamism	JOURNAL OF MARINE SYSTEMS	Tidal front ecosystems are especially dynamic environments usually characterized by high phytoplankton biomass and high primary production. However. the description of functional microbial diversity occurring in these regions remains only partially documented. In this article, we use a numerical model, simulating a large number of phytoplankton phenotypes to explore the three-dimensional spatial patterns of phytoplankton abundance and diversity in the Iroise Sea (western Brittany). Our results suggest that, in boreal summer, a seasonally marked tidal front shapes the phytoplankton species richness. A diversity maximum is found in the surface mixed layer located slightly west of the tidal front (i.e., not strictly co-localized with high biomass concentrations) which separates tidally mixed from stratified waters. Differences in phenotypic composition between sub-regions with distinct hydrodynamic regimes (defined by vertical mixing, nutrients gradients and light penetration) are discussed. Local growth and/or physical transport of phytoplankton phenotypes are shown to explain our simulated diversity distribution. We find that a large fraction (64%) of phenotypes present during the considered period of September are ubiquitous, found in the frontal area and on both sides of the front (i.e., over the full simulated domain). The frontal area does not exhibit significant differences between its community composition and that of either the well-mixed region or an offshore Deep Chlorophyll Maximum (DCM). Only three phenotypes (out of 77) specifically grow locally and are found at substantial concentration only in the surface diversity maximum. Thus, this diversity maximum is composed of a combination of ubiquitous phenotypes with specific picoplankton deriving from offshore, stratified waters (including specific phenotypes from both the surface and the DCM) and imported through physical transport, completed by a few local phenotypes. These results are discussed in light of the three-dimensional general circulation at frontal interfaces. Processes identified by this study are likely to be common in tidal front environments and may be generalized to other shallow, tidally mixed environments worldwide. (C) 2017 Published by Elsevier B.V.	2017	169	10.1016/j.jmarsys.2017.01.004
Nino-Garcia, JP; Ruiz-Gonzalez, C; del Giorgio, PA	Exploring the Ecological Coherence between the Spatial and Temporal Patterns of Bacterioplankton in Boreal Lakes	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	One of the major contemporary challenges in microbial ecology has been to discriminate the reactive core from the random, unreactive components of bacterial communities. In previous work we used the spatial abundance distributions of bacterioplankton across boreal lakes of Quebec to group taxa into four distinct categories that reflect either hydrology-mediated dispersal along the aquatic network or environmental selection mechanisms within lakes. Here, we test whether this categorization derived from the spatial distribution of taxa is maintained over time, by analyzing the temporal dynamics of the operational taxonomic units (OTUs) within those spatially derived categories along an annual cycle in the oligotrophic lake Croche (Quebec, Canada), and assessing the coherence in the patterns of abundance, occurrence, and environmental range of these OTUs over space and time. We report that the temporal dynamics of most taxa within a single lake are largely coherent with those derived from their spatial distribution over large spatial scales, suggesting that these properties must be intrinsic of particular taxa. We also identified a set of rare taxa cataloged as having a random occupancy based on their spatial distribution, but which showed clear seasonality and abundance peaks along the year, yet these comprised a very small fraction of the total rare OTUs. We conclude that the presence of most rare bacterioplankton taxa in boreal lakes is random, since both their temporal and spatial dynamics suggest links to passive downstream transport and persistence in freshwater networks, rather than environmental selection.	2017	8	10.3389/fmicb.2017.00636
Chen, YJ; Kuang, JL; Jia, P; Cadotte, MW; Huang, LN; Li, JT; Liao, B; Wang, PD; Shu, WS	Effect of Environmental Variation on Estimating the Bacterial Species Richness	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Estimating the species richness of microorganisms is of great importance in predicting, maintaining and managing microbial communities. Although the roles of environmental heterogeneity and geographical distance in structuring soil microbial communities have been studied intensively, the effects of environmental and spatial variation on the species richness estimation have not been examined. To this end, we have explored their effects on estimating the belowground soil bacterial species richness within a 50 ha forest dynamic plot (FDP) using a published massive sequencing dataset with intensive sampling scheme. Our resampling analyses showed that, for a given sequencing depth, increasing the sample size could significantly enhance the detection of rare species by capturing more of the environmental and spatial variation, thus obtaining higher observed and estimated species richness. Additionally, the estimates of bacterial species richness were significantly and positively correlated with environmental variation among samples, indicating that environmental filtering was the main mechanism driving the processes of community assembly for belowground soil bacterial communities in the plot. Moreover, this effect of environmental variation could be markedly alleviated when the sample size was higher than 450, and thus we predicted that there were at least 42,866 soil bacterial species based on 8,296,878 sequences from 550 samples in the whole 50 ha FDP. Furthermore, we built a power law environmental heterogeneity equation (EHE) as a decision-tool to determine an approximate sample size for comprehensively capturing the environmental gradient within a given habitat. Collectively, this work further links the inherent environmental and spatial variation to the estimation of soil bacterial species richness within a given region, and provides a useful tool of sampling design for a better understanding of microbial biogeographic patterns and estimation of microbial biodiversity.	2017	8	10.3389/fmicb.2017.00690
Tropini, C; Earle, KA; Huang, KC; Sonnenburg, JL	The Gut Microbiome: Connecting Spatial Organization to Function	CELL HOST & MICROBE	The first rudimentary evidence that the human body harbors a microbiota hinted at the complexity of host-associated microbial ecosystems. Now, almost 400 years later, a renaissance in the study of microbiota spatial organization, driven by coincident revolutions in imaging and sequencing technologies, is revealing functional relationships between biogeography and health, particularly in the vertebrate gut. In this Review, we present our current understanding of principles governing the localization of intestinal bacteria, and spatial relationships between bacteria and their hosts. We further discuss important emerging directions that will enable progressing from the inherently descriptive nature of localization and -omics technologies to provide functional, quantitative, and mechanistic insight into this complex ecosystem.	2017	21	10.1016/j.chom.2017.03.010
Li, YT; Adams, J; Shi, Y; Wang, H; He, JS; Chu, HY	Distinct Soil Microbial Communities in habitats of differing soil water balance on the Tibetan Plateau	SCIENTIFIC REPORTS	Global change may be a severe threat to natural and agricultural systems, partly through its effects in altering soil biota and processes, due to changes in water balance. We studied the potential influence of changing soil water balance on soil biota by comparing existing sites along a natural water balance gradient in the Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau. In this study, the community structure of bacteria, archaea and eukaryotes differed between the different soil water conditions. Soil moisture was the strongest predictor of bacterial and eukaryotic community structure, whereas C/N ratio was the key factor predicting variation in the archaeal community. Bacterial and eukaryotic diversity was quite stable among different soil water availability, but archaeal diversity was dramatically different between the habitats. The auxotype of methanogens also varied significantly among different habitats. The covarying soil properties among habitats shaped the community structure of soil microbes, with archaea being particularly sensitive in terms of community composition, diversity and functional groups. Bacterial and archaeal phylogenetic community turnover was mainly driven by deterministic processes while stochastic processes had stronger effects on eukaryotic phylogenetic community turnover. Our work provides insight into microbial community, functional group and phylogenetic turnover under different soil conditions in low-latitude alpine ecosystem.	2017	7	10.1038/srep46407
Simonsen, AK; Dinnage, R; Barrett, LG; Prober, SM; Thrall, PH	Symbiosis limits establishment of legumes outside their native range at a global scale	NATURE COMMUNICATIONS	Microbial symbiosis is integral to plant growth and reproduction, but its contribution to global patterns of plant distribution is unknown. Legumes (Fabaceae) are a diverse and widely distributed plant family largely dependent on symbiosis with nitrogen-fixing rhizobia, which are acquired from soil after germination. This dependency is predicted to limit establishment in new geographic areas, owing to a disruption of compatible host-symbiont associations. Here we compare non-native establishment patterns of symbiotic and non-symbiotic legumes across over 3,500 species, covering multiple independent gains and losses of rhizobial symbiosis. We find that symbiotic legume species have spread to fewer non-native regions compared to non-symbiotic legumes, providing strong support for the hypothesis that lack of suitable symbionts or environmental conditions required for effective nitrogen-fixation are driving these global introduction patterns. These results highlight the importance of mutualisms in predicting non-native species establishment and the potential impacts of microbial biogeography on global plant distributions.	2017	8	10.1038/ncomms14790
Ramalho, MO; Bueno, OC; Moreau, CS	Microbial composition of spiny ants (Hymenoptera: Formicidae: Polyrhachis) across their geographic range	BMC EVOLUTIONARY BIOLOGY	Background: Symbiotic relationships between insects and bacteria are found across almost all insect orders, including Hymenoptera. However there are still many remaining questions about these associations including what factors drive host-associated bacterial composition. To better understand the evolutionary significance of this association in nature, further studies addressing a diversity of hosts across locations and evolutionary history are necessary. Ants of the genus Polyrhachis (spiny ants) are distributed across the Old World and exhibit generalist diets and habits. Using Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) and bioinformatics tools, this study explores the microbial community of >80 species of Polyrhachis distributed across the Old World and compares the microbiota of samples and related hosts across different biogeographic locations and in the context of their phylogenetic history. Results: The predominant bacteria across samples were Enterobacteriaceae (Blochmannia - with likely many new strains), followed by Wolbachia (with multiple strains), Lactobacillus, Thiotrichaceae, Acinetobacter, Nocardia, Sodalis, and others. We recovered some exclusive strains of Enterobacteriaceae as specific to some subgenera of Polyrhachis, corroborating the idea of coevolution between host and bacteria for this bacterial group. Our correlation results (partial mantel and mantel tests) found that host phylogeny can influence the overall bacterial community, but that geographic location had no effect. Conclusions: Our work is revealing important aspects of the biology of hosts in structuring the diversity and abundance of these host-associated bacterial communities including the role of host phylogeny and shared evolutionary history.	2017	17	10.1186/s12862-017-0945-8
Li, DY; Chen, HQ; Mao, BY; Yang, Q; Zhao, JX; Gu, ZN; Zhang, H; Chen, YQ; Chen, W	Microbial Biogeography and Core Microbiota of the Rat Digestive Tract	SCIENTIFIC REPORTS	As a long-standing biomedical model, rats have been frequently used in studies exploring the correlations between gastrointestinal (GI) bacterial biota and diseases. In the present study, luminal and mucosal samples taken along the longitudinal axis of the rat digestive tract were subjected to 16S rRNA gene sequencing-based analysis to determine the baseline microbial composition. Results showed that the community diversity increased from the upper to lower GI segments and that the stratification of microbial communities as well as shift of microbial metabolites were driven by biogeographic location. A greater proportion of lactate-producing bacteria (such as Lactobacillus, Turicibacter and Streptococcus) were found in the stomach and small intestine, while anaerobic Lachnospiraceae and Ruminococcaceae, fermenting carbohydrates and plant aromatic compounds, constituted the bulk of the large-intestinal core microbiota where topologically distinct co-occurrence networks were constructed for the adjacent luminal and mucosal compartments. When comparing the GI microbiota from different hosts, we found that the rat microbial biogeography might represent a new reference, distinct from other murine animals. Our study provides the first comprehensive characterization of the rat GI microbiota landscape for the research community, laying the foundation for better understanding and predicting the disease-related alterations in microbial communities.	2017	7	10.1038/srep45840
Zhao, F; Xu, KD	Distribution of Ciliates in Intertidal Sediments across Geographic Distances: A Molecular View	PROTIST	The estimation of the diversity and geographic distribution of protists in particular ciliates has long been an ongoing debate. We estimated the distribution of ciliates in intertidal sediments with geographic distance ranging from 10 cm to 1,000 km, using high-throughput DNA sequencing. Higher community similarity, in particular that of rare ciliate taxa, occurred between replicates than between sites. Statistical analyses showed that the community dissimilarities of both abundant and moderately abundant ciliates had correlations with geographic distance at the scales of 50 m, 200 km and 1000 km, indicating a distance-decay relationship. No significant correlation was observed for rare taxa. The analysis of Bray-Curtis similarity showed a higher pairwise community similarity in abundant taxa than in moderately abundant taxa, and that in rare taxa was the lowest. Abundant taxa usually can disperse in a wider range than rare taxa, though their distribution is restricted by distance to some extent. Rare taxa are potentially more sensitive to changing environments, but no distance-decay relationship could be observed. The data indicate contrasting patterns of geographic distribution of the abundant and rare ciliate taxa and a weak distance-decay relationship for relatively abundant taxa at a scale over 50 m. (C) 2017 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.	2017	168	10.1016/j.protis.2017.01.001
Graham, EB; Crump, AR; Resch, CT; Fansler, S; Arntzen, E; Kennedy, DW; Fredrickson, JK; Stegen, JC	Deterministic influences exceed dispersal effects on hydrologically-connected microbiomes	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Subsurface groundwater-surface water mixing zones (hyporheic zones) have enhanced biogeochemical activity, but assembly processes governing subsurface microbiomes remain a critical uncertainty in understanding hyporheic biogeochemistry. To address this obstacle, we investigated (a) biogeographical patterns in attached and waterborne microbiomes across three hydrologically-connected, physicochemically-distinct zones (inland hyporheic, nearshore hyporheic and river); (b) assembly processes that generated these patterns; (c) groups of organisms that corresponded to deterministic changes in the environment; and (d) correlations between these groups and hyporheic metabolism. All microbiomes remained dissimilar through time, but consistent presence of similar taxa suggested dispersal and/or common selective pressures among zones. Further, we demonstrated a pronounced impact of deterministic assembly in all microbiomes as well as seasonal shifts from heterotrophic to autotrophic microorganisms associated with increases in groundwater discharge. The abundance of one statistical cluster of organisms increased with active biomass and respiration, revealing organisms that may strongly influence hyporheic biogeochemistry. Based on our results, we propose a conceptualization of hyporheic zone metabolism in which increased organic carbon concentrations during surface water intrusion support heterotrophy, which succumbs to autotrophy under groundwater discharge. These results provide new opportunities to enhance microbially-explicit ecosystem models describing hyporheic zone biogeochemistry and its influence over riverine ecosystem function.	2017	19	10.1111/1462-2920.13720
Larkin, AA; Martiny, AC	Microdiversity shapes the traits, niche space, and biogeography of microbial taxa	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY REPORTS	With rapidly improving sequencing technologies, scientists have recently gained the ability to examine diverse microbial communities at high genomic resolution, revealing that both free-living and host-associated microbes partition their environment at fine phylogenetic scales. This microdiversity, or closely related (> 97% similar 16S rRNA gene) but ecologically and physiologically distinct sub-taxonomic groups, appears to be an intrinsic property of microorganisms. However, the functional implications of microdiversity as well as its effects on microbial biogeography are poorly understood. Here, we present two theoretical models outlining the evolutionary mechanisms that drive the formation of microdiverse sub-taxa. Additionally, we review recent literature and reveal that microdiversity influences a wide range of functional traits across diverse ecosystems and microbes. Moving to higher levels of organization, we use laboratory data from marine, soil, and host-associated bacteria to demonstrate that the aggregated trait-based response of microdiverse sub-taxa modifies the fundamental niche of microbes. The correspondence between microdiversity and niche space represents a critical tool for future studies of microbial ecology. By combining growth experiments on diverse isolates with examinations of environmental abundance patterns, researchers can better quantify the fundamental and realized niches of microbes and improve understanding of microbial biogeography and response to future environmental change.	2017	9	10.1111/1758-2229.12523
Shanmugam, SG; Magbanua, ZV; Williams, MA; Jangid, K; Whitman, WB; Peterson, DG; Kingery, WL	Bacterial Diversity Patterns Differ in Soils Developing in Sub-tropical and Cool-Temperate Ecosystems	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Microbial diversity patterns have been surveyed in many different soils and ecosystems, but we are unaware of studies comparing similar soils developing from similar parent materials in contrasting climates. In 2008, developmental chronosequences with ages ranging from 105 to 500,000 years across Georgia (GA) and Michigan (MI) were studied to investigate how bacterial community composition and diversity change as a result of local environmental gradients that develop during pedogenesis. Geographic factors were studied between and within locations spanning two scales: (1) regionally between 0.1 and 50 and (2) similar to 1700 km apart. The diversity was surveyed using high-throughput pyrosequencing, and variance partitioning was used to describe the effects of spatial, environmental, and spatio-environmental factors on bacterial community composition. At the local scale, variation in bacterial communities was most closely related to environmental factors (r(M)=0.59, p = 0.0001). There were differences in bacterial communities between the two locations, indicating spatial biogeography. Estimates of bacterial diversity were much greater in MI (numbers of OTU, ACE, and Chao1) and remained 2-3x greater in MI than GA after removing the effect of soil properties. The large differences in diversity between geographically separated bacterial communities in different climates need further investigation. It is not known if the rare members of the community, which contributed to greater bacterial diversity in GA relative to MI, play an important role in ecosystem function but has been hypothesized to play a role in ecosystem resiliency, resistance, and stability. Further research on the link between bacterial diversity and spatial variability related to climate needs further investigation.	2017	73	10.1007/s00248-016-0884-8
Song, C; Wang, BC; Tan, J; Zhu, LC; Lou, DH; Cen, XX	Comparative analysis of the gut microbiota of black bears in China using high-throughput sequencing	MOLECULAR GENETICS AND GENOMICS	The Asiatic black bear (Ursus thibetanus) is a protected species from eastern Asia. In China, the Asiatic black bear occurs in 17 provinces from northeast to southwest regions. To date, information on microbial diversity in the gut of the Asiatic black bears from different populations remains limited. To determine the species composition and community structure of the gut microbiota in the Asiatic black bear, we characterized 36 fecal samples from Sichuan, Yunnan, and Heilongjiang provinces, China, by pyrosequencing the 16S V3-V4 hypervariable regions using the Illumina Miseq platform. Results showed that Firmicutes and Proteobacteria were the predominant phyla in the samples, which were largely comprised Escherichia-Shigella, Peptostreptococcaceae_incertae_sedis, Turicibacter, Streptococcus, and Clostridium. By analyzing the community structure from these 36 samples, we found that there were significant differences in the species diversity and richness between Sichuan, Yunnan, and Heilongjiang populations. In conclusion, our results reveal the species composition and structure of the gut microbiota in captive black bears in China, and suggest that biogeography could affect the black bear gut microbiota.	2017	292	10.1007/s00438-016-1282-0
Mino, S; Nakagawa, S; Makita, H; Toki, T; Miyazaki, J; Sievert, SM; Polz, MF; Inagaki, F; Godfroy, A; Kato, S; Watanabe, H; Nunoura, T; Nakamura, K; Imachi, H; Watsuji, T; Kojima, S; Takai, K; Sawabe, T	Endemicity of the cosmopolitan mesophilic chemolithoautotroph Sulfurimonas at deep-sea hydrothermal vents	ISME JOURNAL	Rich animal and microbial communities have been found at deep-sea hydrothermal vents. Although the biogeography of vent macrofauna is well understood, the corresponding knowledge about vent microbial biogeography is lacking. Here, we apply the multilocus sequence analysis (MLSA) to assess the genetic variation of 109 Sulfurimonas strains with >= 98% 16S rRNA gene sequence similarity, which were isolated from four different geographical regions (Okinawa Trough (OT), Mariana Volcanic Arc and Trough (MVAT), Central Indian Ridge (CIR) and Mid-Atlantic Ridge (MAR)). Sequence typing based on 11 protein-coding genes revealed high genetic variation, including some allele types that are widespread within regions, resulting in 102 nucleotide sequence types (STs). This genetic variation was predominantly due to mutation rather than recombination. Phylogenetic analysis of the 11 concatenated genes showed a clear geographical isolation corresponding to the hydrothermal regions they originated from, suggesting limited dispersal. Genetic differentiation among Sulfurimonas populations was primarily influenced by geographical distance rather than gas composition of vent fluid or habitat, although in situ environmental conditions of each microhabitat could not be examined. Nevertheless, Sulfurimonas may possess a higher dispersal capability compared with deep-sea hydrothermal vent thermophiles. This is the first report on MLSA of deep-sea hydrothermal vent Epsilonproteobacteria, which is indicative of allopatric speciation.	2017	11	10.1038/ismej.2016.178
Payne, JT; Millar, JJ; Jackson, CR; Ochs, CA	Patterns of variation in diversity of the Mississippi river microbiome over 1,300 kilometers	PLOS ONE	We examined the downriver patterns of variation in taxonomic diversity of the Mississippi River bacterioplankton microbiome along 1,300 river kilometers, or approximately one third the total length of the river. The study section included portions of the Upper, Middle, and Lower Mississippi River, confluences with five tributaries draining distinct sub-basins, river cities, and extended stretches without major inputs to the Mississippi. The composition and proportional abundance of dominant bacterial phyla was distinct for free-living and particle associated cells, and constant along the entire reach, except for a substantial but transient disturbance near the city of Memphis, Tennessee. At a finer scale of taxonomic resolution (operational taxonomic units, OTUs), however, there were notable patterns in downriver variation in bacterial community alpha diversity (richness within a site) and beta diversity (variation in composition among sites). There was a strong and steady increase downriver in alpha diversity of OTUs on suspended particles, suggesting an increase in particle niche heterogeneity, and/or particle colonization. Relatively large shifts in beta diversity of free-living and particle-associated communities occurred following major tributary confluences and transiently at Memphis, while in long stretches between these points diversity typically varied more gradually. We conclude that the Mississippi River possesses a bacterioplankton microbiome distinct in diversity from other large river microbiomes in the Mississippi River Basin, that at major river confluences or urban point sources its OTU diversity may shift abruptly and substantially, presumably by immigration of distinct external microbiomes, but that where environmental conditions are more stable along the downriver gradient, micro biome diversity tends to vary gradually, presumably by a process of successional change in community composition.	2017	12	10.1371/journal.pone.0174890
Tian, Q; Taniguchi, T; Shi, WY; Li, GQ; Yamanaka, N; Du, S	Land-use types and soil chemical properties influence soil microbial communities in the semiarid Loess Plateau region in China	SCIENTIFIC REPORTS	Similar land-use types usually have similar soil properties, and, most likely, similar microbial communities. Here, we assessed whether land-use types or soil chemical properties are the primary drivers of soil microbial community composition, and how changes in one part of the ecosystem affect another. We applied Ion Torrent sequencing to the bacterial and fungal communities of five different land-use (vegetation) types in the Loess Plateau of China. We found that the overall trend of soil quality was natural forest > plantation > bare land. Dominant bacterial phyla consisted of Proteobacteria (42.35%), Actinobacteria (15.61%), Acidobacteria (13.32%), Bacteroidetes (8.43%), and Gemmatimonadetes (6.0%). The dominant fungi phyla were Ascomycota (40.39%), Basidiomycota (38.01%), and Zygomycota (16.86%). The results of Canonical Correspondence Analysis (CCA) and Redundancy Analysis (RDA) based on land-use types displayed groups according to the land-use types. Furthermore, the bacterial communities were mainly organized by soil organic carbon (SOC). The fungal communities were mainly related to available phosphorus (P). The results suggested that the changes of land use type generated changes in soil chemical properties, controlling the composition of microbial community in the semiarid Loess Plateau region. The microbial community could be an indicator for soil quality with respect to ecological restoration.	2017	7	10.1038/srep45289
Le Bloa, S; Durand, L; Cueff-Gauchard, V; Le Bars, J; Taupin, L; Marteau, C; Bazire, A; Cambon-Bonavita, MA	Highlighting of quorum sensing lux genes and their expression in the hydrothermal vent shrimp Rimicaris exoculata ectosymbiontic community. Possible use as biogeographic markers	PLOS ONE	Rimicaris exoculata is a caridean shrimp that dominates the fauna at several hydrothermal vent sites of the Mid-Atlantic Ridge. It has two distinct and stable microbial communities. One of these epibiontic bacterial communities is located in the shrimp gut and has a distribution and role that are poorly understood. The second colonizes its enlarged gill chamber and is involved in host nutrition. It is eliminated after each molt, and has colonization processes reminiscent of those of a biofilm. The presence and expression of genes usually involved in quorum sensing (QS) were then studied. At four sites, Rainbow, TAG, Snake Pit and Logatchev, two lux genes were identified in the R. exoculata epibiontic community at different shrimp molt stages and life stages. RT-PCR experiments highlighted lux gene expression activity at TAG, Snake Pit and Rainbow vent sites. Their potential QS activity and their possible roles in epibiont colonization processes are discussed. Moreover, phylogenetic analysis has shown the presence of three clades for luxS (Epsilonproteobacteria) and four clades for luxR (Gammaproteobacteria) genes, each clade being restricted to a single site. These genes are more divergent than the 16S rRNA one. They could therefore be used as biogeographical genetic markers.	2017	12	10.1371/journal.pone.0174338
Han, LL; Yu, DT; Zhang, LM; Shen, JP; He, JZ	Genetic and functional diversity of ubiquitous DNA viruses in selected Chinese agricultural soils	SCIENTIFIC REPORTS	Viral community structures in complex agricultural soils are largely unknown. Electron microscopy and viromic analyses were conducted on six typical Chinese agricultural soil samples. Tailed bacteriophages, spherical and filamentous viral particles were identified by the morphological analysis. Based on the metagenomic analysis, single-stranded DNA viruses represented the largest viral component in most of the soil habitats, while the double-stranded DNA viruses belonging to the Caudovirales order were predominanted in Jiangxi-maize soils. The majority of functional genes belonged to the subsystem phages, prophages, transposable elements, and plasmids. Non-metric multidimensional analysis of viral community showed that the environment medium type was the most important driving factor for the viral community structure. For the major viral groups detected in all samples (Microviridae and Caudovirales), the two groups gathered viruses from different sites and similar genetic composition, indicating that viral diversity was high on a local point but relatively limited on a global scale. This is a novel report of viral diversity in Chinese agricultural soils, and the abundance, taxonomic, and functional diversity of viruses that were observed in different types of soils will aid future soil virome studies and enhance our understanding of the ecological functions of soil viruses.	2017	7	10.1038/srep45142
Xiang, X; Wang, RC; Wang, HM; Gong, LF; Man, BY; Xu, Y	Distribution of Bathyarchaeota Communities Across Different Terrestrial Settings and Their Potential Ecological Functions	SCIENTIFIC REPORTS	High abundance and widespread distribution of the archaeal phylum Bathyarchaeota in marine environment have been recognized recently, but knowledge about Bathyarchaeota in terrestrial settings and their correlation with environmental parameters is fairly limited. Here we reported the abundance of Bathyarchaeota members across different ecosystems and their correlation with environmental factors by constructing 16S rRNA clone libraries of peat from the Dajiuhu Peatland, coupling with bioinformatics analysis of 16S rRNA data available to date in NCBI database. In total, 1456 Bathyarchaeota sequences from 28 sites were subjected to UniFrac analysis based on phylogenetic distance and multivariate regression tree analysis of taxonomy. Both phylogenetic and taxon-based approaches showed that salinity, total organic carbon and temperature significantly influenced the distribution of Bathyarchaeota across different terrestrial habitats. By applying the ecological concept of indicator species, we identify 9 indicator groups among the 6 habitats with the most in the estuary sediments. Network analysis showed that members of Bathyarchaeota formed the backbone of archaeal community and often co-occurred with Methanomicrobia. These results suggest that Bathyarchaeota may play an important ecological role within archaeal communities via a potential symbiotic association with Methanomicrobia. Our results shed light on understanding of the biogeography, potential functions of Bathyarchaeota and environment conditions that influence Bathyarchaea distribution in terrestrial settings.	2017	7	10.1038/srep45028
Niu, B; Paulson, JN; Zheng, XQ; Kolter, R	Simplified and representative bacterial community of maize roots	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	Plant-associated microbes are important for the growth and health of their hosts. As a result of numerous prior studies, we know that host genotypes and abiotic factors influence the composition of plant microbiomes. However, the high complexity of these communities challenges detailed studies to define experimentally the mechanisms underlying the dynamics of community assembly and the beneficial effects of such microbiomes on plant hosts. In this work, from the distinctive microbiota assembled by maize roots, through host-mediated selection, we obtained a greatly simplified synthetic bacterial community consisting of seven strains (Enterobacter cloacae, Stenotrophomonas maltophilia, Ochrobactrum pituitosum, Herbaspirillum frisingense, Pseudomonas putida, Curtobacterium pusillum, and Chryseobacterium indologenes) representing three of the four most dominant phyla found in maize roots. By using a selective culture-dependent method to track the abundance of each strain, we investigated the role that each plays in community assembly on roots of axenic maize seedlings. Only the removal of E. cloacae led to the complete loss of the community, and C. pusillum took over. This result suggests that E. cloacae plays the role of keystone species in this model ecosystem. In planta and in vitro, this model community inhibited the phytopathogenic fungus Fusarium verticillioides, indicating a clear benefit to the host. Thus, combined with the selective culture-dependent quantification method, our synthetic seven-species community representing the root microbiome has the potential to serve as a useful system to explore how bacterial interspecies interactions affect root microbiome assembly and to dissect the beneficial effects of the root microbiota on hosts under laboratory conditions in the future.	2017	114	10.1073/pnas.1616148114
Szafranski, SP; Deng, ZL; Tomasch, J; Jarek, M; Bhuju, S; Rohde, M; Sztajer, H; Wagner-Dobler, I	Quorum sensing of Streptococcus mutans is activated by Aggregatibacter actinomycetemcomitans and by the periodontal microbiome	BMC GENOMICS	Background: The oral cavity is inhabited by complex microbial communities forming biofilms that can cause caries and periodontitis. Cell-cell communication might play an important role in modulating the physiologies of individual species, but evidence so far is limited. Results: Here we demonstrate that a pathogen of the oral cavity, Aggregatibacter actinomycetemcomitans (A. act.), triggers expression of the quorum sensing (QS) regulon of Streptococcus mutans, a well-studied model organism for cariogenic streptococci, in dual-species biofilms grown on artificial saliva. The gene for the synthesis of the QS signal XIP is essential for this interaction. Transcriptome sequencing of biofilms revealed that S. mutans up-regulated the complete QS regulon (transformasome and mutacins) in the presence of A. act. and down-regulated oxidative stress related genes. A. act. required the presence of S. mutans for growth. Fimbriae and toxins were its most highly expressed genes and up-regulation of anaerobic metabolism, chaperones and iron acquisition genes was observed in co-culture. Metatranscriptomes from periodontal pockets showed highly variable levels of S. mutans and low levels of A. act.. Transcripts of the alternative sigma-factor SigX, the key regulator of QS in S. mutans, were significantly enriched in periodontal pockets compared to single cultures (log(2) 4.159, FDR <= 0.001, and expression of mutacin related genes and transformasome components could be detected. Conclusion: The data show that the complete QS regulon of S. mutans can be induced by an unrelated oral pathogen and S. mutans may be competent in oral biofilms in vivo.	2017	18	10.1186/s12864-017-3618-5
Seo, JH; Kang, I; Yang, SJ; Cho, JC	Characterization of spatial distribution of the bacterial community in the South Sea of Korea	PLOS ONE	In order to investigate the importance of spatial and environmental factors on the structure and diversity of bacterial communities, high-resolution 16S rRNA gene tag pyrosequencing was applied to bacterial communities in the littoral sea. Seawater samples were prepared from seven different stations in the South Sea of Korea, the marginal sea in the western Pacific Ocean, and were divided into three groups according to distances from the coastline. The majority of 19,860 sequences were affiliated with Alphaproteobacteria (58.2%), Gammaproteobacteria (7.9%), and Bacteroidetes (13.9%). The bacterioplankton community at each station was highly diverse and varied among the samples. Major bacterial lineages showed different niche preferences among three locational groups. Alphaproteobacteria was the most abundant bacterial class, and it harbored the most frequently recorded operational taxonomic units (OTUs) in all sampling stations. However, dominant groups at the order levels showed a clear difference among the samples. The SAR11 clade was more abundant in coastal waters while the Roseobacter clade prevailed at stations far away from the coastline. Furthermore, members of Actinobacteria and Cyanobacteria also exhibited spatial variability. The OM1 clade in Actinobacteria constituted a predominant fraction in coastal samples, but it was essentially absent at the distal stations closer to open ocean. In contrast, Synechococcus was the predominant taxon in the distal samples, accounting for 7.1-19.5%, but was hardly detected in coastal waters, representing less than 0.7%. In Bacteroidetes, NS5 and NS9 groups tended to inhabit coastal waters while the genera Polaribacter and Ulvibacter were more abundant in distal stations. Clustering analysis and principle coordinates analysis based on OTU data indicated that bacterial communities in the studied area were separated into three groups that coincided with locational grouping. Statistical analysis showed that phosphate and dissolved oxygen concentration had a significant influence on the bacterial community composition.	2017	12	10.1371/journal.pone.0174159
Li, XY; Sun, J; Wang, HH; Li, X; Wang, J; Zhang, HW	Changes in the soil microbial phospholipid fatty acid profile with depth in three soil types of paddy fields in China	GEODERMA	We know very little about microbial communities in deeper soil horizons, especially the microbial characteristics along soil depth profiles in paddy fields. In this study, we used a phospholipid fatty acid (PLFA) analysis to investigate the vertical distribution of the microbial community, and to identify the environmental factors that contributed to changes of the microbial community along a soil depth gradient. Samples were collected from the soil surface to 1 m in depth from three soil types of paddy fields in three regions. The results showed that total PLFAs and Shannons diversity index decreased significantly with increasing soil depth, and they exhibited relatively low values at soil depths less than 40 cm. In the paddy soil profile, the relative microbial abundance was in the order bacteria > actinomycetes > fungi. Generally, the relative abundances of bacteria and fungi significantly decreased at 0-40 cm depths and then increased at 40-100 cm depths; however, the relative abundance of actinomycetes usually increased at 0-40 cm depths, and then decreased significantly with increasing soil depth. The proportion of Gram-positive bacteria was higher than that of Gram-negative bacteria in deeper soils. Canonical correspondence analysis and Pearsons correlation analysis indicated that nutrient resources and soil water content were more closely correlated with the changes of the microbial community structures along the soil depth gradient than soil pH, elevation, and climate, and were the primary drivers of the microbial community composition along the soil depth gradient. (C) 2016 Published by Elsevier B.V.	2017	290	10.1016/j.geoderma.2016.11.006
Leheste, JR; Ruvolo, KE; Chrostowski, JE; Rivera, K; Husko, C; Miceli, A; Selig, MK; Bruggemann, H; Torres, G	P. acnes-Driven Disease Pathology: Current Knowledge and Future Directions	FRONTIERS IN CELLULAR AND INFECTION MICROBIOLOGY	This review discusses the biology and behavior of Propionibacterium acnes (Pacnes), a dominant bacterium species of the skin biogeography thought to be associated with transmission, recurrence and severity of disease. More specifically, we discuss the ability of P. acnes to invade and persist in epithelial cells and circulating macrophages to subsequently induce bouts of sarcoidosis, low-grade inflammation and metastatic cell growth in the prostate gland. Finally, we discuss the possibility of P. acnes infiltrating the brain parenchyma to indirectly contribute to pathogenic processes in neurodegenerative disorders such as those observed in Parkinsons disease (PD).	2017	7	10.3389/fcimb.2017.00081
Ahn, AC; Meier-Kolthoff, JP; Overmars, L; Richter, M; Woyke, T; Sorokin, DY; Muyzer, G	Genomic diversity within the haloalkaliphilic genus Thioalkalivibrio	PLOS ONE	Thioalkalivibrio is a genus of obligate chemolithoautotrophic haloalkaliphilic sulfur-oxidizing bacteria. Their habitat are soda lakes which are dual extreme environments with a pH range from 9.5 to 11 and salt concentrations up to saturation. More than 100 strains of this genus have been isolated from various soda lakes all over the world, but only ten species have been effectively described yet. Therefore, the assignment of the remaining strains to either existing or novel species is important and will further elucidate their genomic diversity as well as give a better general understanding of this genus. Recently, the genomes of 76 Thioalkalivibrio strains were sequenced. On these, we applied different methods including (i) 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis, (ii) Multilocus Sequence Analysis (MLSA) based on eight housekeeping genes, (iii) Average Nucleotide Identity based on BLAST (ANI(b)) and MUMmer (ANI(m)), (iv) Tetranucleotide frequency correlation coefficients (TETRA), (v) digital DNA: DNA hybridization (dDDH) as well as (vi) nucleotide-and amino acid-based Genome BLAST Distance Phylogeny (GBDP) analyses. We detected a high genomic diversity by revealing 15 new genomic species and 16 new genomic subspecies in addition to the ten already described species. Phylogenetic and phylogenomic analyses showed that the genus is not monophyletic, because four strains were clearly separated from the other Thioalkalivibrio by type strains from other genera. Therefore, it is recommended to classify the latter group as a novel genus. The biogeographic distribution of Thioalkalivibrio suggested that the different genomic species can be classified as candidate disjunct or candidate endemic species. This study is a detailed genome-based classification and identification of members within the genus Thioalkalivibrio. However, future phenotypical and chemotaxonomical studies will be needed for a full species description of this genus.	2017	12	10.1371/journal.pone.0173517
LaBella, AL; Van Dover, CL; Jollivet, D; Cunningham, CW	Gene flow between Atlantic and Pacific Ocean basins in three lineages of deep-sea clams (Bivalvia: Vesicomyidae: Pliocardiinae) and subsequent limited gene flow within the Atlantic	DEEP-SEA RESEARCH PART II-TOPICAL STUDIES IN OCEANOGRAPHY	Pliocardiin (vesicomyid) clams rely on microbial symbionts for nutrition and are obligate inhabitants of deep-sea chemosynthetic ecosystems. Unlike many other invertebrate hosts of chemosynthetic microbes, pliocardiin clams are found in every ocean in a variety of reducing habitats, including hydrothermal vents, cold seeps, organic falls and deep-sea fans. The global distribution of pliocardiin clams suggests historical gene flow between ocean basins. We focus on 3 pliocardiin genera Pliocardia I, Calyptogena and Abyssogena each of which has a pair of sister clades in the Atlantic and Pacific. Our work tests the hypothesis that historical gene flow between the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans within these genera was interrupted by the closure of the Panamanian seaway and tests whether isolation between the ocean basins is the result of vicariance or past colonization. These questions are investigated in the context of fossil evidence, biogeography and phylogenetics. This study revealed a set of substitution rates consistent with other invertebrate studies (mu =0.8%/My/lineage), and a set consistent with much lower rates often attributed to deep-sea organisms (mu=0.3%/Myflineage). Among the Pacific/Atlantic sister pairs, Pilocardia I COI divergence per lineage is intermediate (2.5%), Calyptogena is the highest (6.1%) and Abyssogena the lowest (0.8%). The substitution rates suggest that Pliocardia I and Calyptogena have histories of at least 2.8 My in the Atlantic, with Calyptogena likely older. The slower rate, however, is inconsistent with both the maximum age of the family and several well studied fossils: leaving the faster rate preferred. With the faster rate, the Abyssogena southwardae Glade diverged from its Pacific sister Glade around 1 Mya, which likely post-dates the closure of the Isthmus of Panama and the opening of the Bering Strait. In light of this recent divergence, we test the previously proposed hypothesis that there is a high level of ongoing gene flow between Atlantic populations of A. southwardae. A. southwardae has colonized a broad geographic range of seep sites including the West Florida Escarpment, the Barbados Accretionary Prism, the Lobes of Congo, and the Mid-Atlantic Ridge north and south of the Romanche Transform Fault. Coalescent methods detect gene flow between Barbados and the Mid-Atlantic ridge; and between the West Florida Escarpment and the Lobes of Congo. All other comparisons failed to detect gene flow, contrary to prevailing interpretations of connectivity across the entire Atlantic Basin. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2017	137	10.1016/j.dsr2.2016.05.013
Hirsch, PR; Jhurreea, D; Williams, JK; Murray, PJ; Scott, T; Misselbrook, TH; Goulding, KWT; Clark, IM	Soil resilience and recovery: rapid community responses to management changes	PLANT AND SOIL	Background and aims Soil degradation is a major global problem; to investigate the potential for recovery of soil biota and associated key functions, soils were monitored during the early years of conversion between permanent grassland, arable cropping and bare fallow (maintained by regular tilling). Distinct differences in soil properties had become apparent 50 years after a previous conversion. Methods Subplots on previously permanent grassland, arable and bare fallow soil were converted to the two alternatives, generating 9 treatments. Soil properties (soil organic carbon, mesofauna, microbial community structure and activity) were measured. Results After 2 years, mesofauna and microbial abundance increased where plants were grown on previously bare fallow soils and declined where grassland was converted to bare fallow treatment. Overall prokaryote community composition remained more similar to the previous treatments of the converted plots than to the new treatments but there were significant changes in the relative abundance of some groups and functional genes. Four years after conversion, SOC in arable and bare fallow soils converted to grassland had increased significantly. Conclusions Conversion to permanent grassland effectively replenished C in previously degraded soil; the soil microbiome showed significant conversion-related changes; plant-driven recovery was quicker than C loss in the absence of plants.	2017	412	10.1007/s11104-016-3068-x
Westcott, SL; Schloss, PD	OptiClust, an Improved Method for Assigning Amplicon-Based Sequence Data to Operational Taxonomic Units	MSPHERE	Assignment of 16S rRNA gene sequences to operational taxonomic units (OTUs) is a computational bottleneck in the process of analyzing microbial communities. Although this has been an active area of research, it has been difficult to overcome the time and memory demands while improving the quality of the OTU assignments. Here, we developed a new OTU assignment algorithm that iteratively reassigns sequences to new OTUs to optimize the Matthews correlation coefficient (MCC), a measure of the quality of OTU assignments. To assess the new algorithm, OptiClust, we compared it to 10 other algorithms using 16S rRNA gene sequences from two simulated and four natural communities. Using the OptiClust algorithm, the MCC values averaged 15.2 and 16.5% higher than the OTUs generated when we used the average neighbor and distance-based greedy clustering with VSEARCH, respectively. Furthermore, on average, OptiClust was 94.6 times faster than the average neighbor algorithm and just as fast as distance-based greedy clustering with VSEARCH. An empirical analysis of the efficiency of the algorithms showed that the time and memory required to perform the algorithm scaled quadratically with the number of unique sequences in the data set. The significant improvement in the quality of the OTU assignments over previously existing methods will significantly enhance downstream analysis by limiting the splitting of similar sequences into separate OTUs and merging of dissimilar sequences into the same OTU. The development of the OptiClust algorithm represents a significant advance that is likely to have numerous other applications. IMPORTANCE The analysis of microbial communities from diverse environments using 16S rRNA gene sequencing has expanded our knowledge of the biogeography of microorganisms. An important step in this analysis is the assignment of sequences into taxonomic groups based on their similarity to sequences in a database or based on their similarity to each other, irrespective of a database. In this study, we present a new algorithm for the latter approach. The algorithm, OptiClust, seeks to optimize a metric of assignment quality by shuffling sequences between taxonomic groups. We found that OptiClust produces more robust assignments and does so in a rapid and memory-efficient manner. This advance will allow for a more robust analysis of microbial communities and the factors that shape them.	2017	2	10.1128/mSphereDirect.00073-17
Djurhuus, A; Boersch-Supan, PH; Mikalsen, SO; Rogers, AD	Microbe biogeography tracks water masses in a dynamic oceanic frontal system	ROYAL SOCIETY OPEN SCIENCE	Dispersal limitation, not just environmental selection, plays an important role in microbial biogeography. The distancedecay relationship is thought to be weak in habitats where dispersal is high, such as in the pelagic environment, where ocean currents facilitate microbial dispersal. Most studies of microbial community composition to date have observed little geographical heterogeneity on a regional scale (100 km). We present a study of microbial communities across a dynamic frontal zone in the southwest Indian Ocean and investigate the spatial structure of the microbes with respect to the different water masses separated by these fronts. We collected 153 samples of free-living microorganisms from five seamounts located along a gradient from subtropical to subantarctic waters and across three depth layers: (i) the sub-surface chlorophyll maximum (approx. 40 m), (ii) the bottom of the euphotic zone (approx. 200 m), and (iii) the benthic boundary layer (300-2000 m). Diversity and abundance of microbial operational taxonomic units (OTUs) were assessed by amplification and sequencing of the 16S rRNA gene on an Illumina MiSeq platform. Multivariate analyses showed thatmicrobial communitieswere structured more strongly by depth than by latitude, with similar phyla occurring within each depth stratum across seamounts. The deep layer was homogeneous across the entire survey area, corresponding to the spread of Antarctic intermediate water. However, within both the sub-surface layer and the intermediate depth stratum there was evidence for OTU turnover across fronts. The microbiome of these layers appears to be divided into three distinct biological regimes corresponding to the subantarctic surface water, the convergence zone and subtropical. We show that microbial biogeography across depth and latitudinal gradients is linked to the water masses the microbes persist in, resulting in regional patterns of microbial biogeography that correspond to the regional scale physical oceanography.	2017	4	10.1098/rsos.170033
Lester, PJ; Sebastien, A; Suarez, AV; Barbieri, RF; Gruber, MAM	Symbiotic bacterial communities in ants are modified by invasion pathway bottlenecks and alter host behavior	ECOLOGY	Biological invasions are a threat to global biodiversity and provide unique -opportunities to study ecological processes. Population bottlenecks are a common feature of biological invasions and the severity of these bottlenecks is likely to be compounded as an invasive species spreads from initial invasion sites to additional locations. Despite extensive work on the genetic consequences of bottlenecks, we know little about how they influence microbial communities of the invaders themselves. Due to serial bottlenecks, invasive species may lose microbial symbionts including pathogenic taxa (the enemy release hypothesis) and/or may accumulate natural enemies with increasing time after invasion (the pathogen accumulation and invasive decline hypothesis). We tested these alternate hypotheses by surveying bacterial communities of Argentine ants (Linepithema humile). We found evidence for serial symbiont bottlenecks: the bacterial community richness declined over the invasion pathway from Argentina to New Zealand. The abundance of some genera, such as Lactobacillus, also significantly declined over the invasion pathway. Argentine ants from populations in the United States shared the most genera with ants from their native range in Argentina, while New Zealand shared the least (120 vs. 57, respectively). Nine genera were present in all sites around the globe possibly indicating a core group of obligate microbes. In accordance with the pathogen accumulation and invasive decline hypothesis, Argentine ants acquired genera unique to each specific invaded country. The United States had the most unique genera, though even within New Zealand these ants acquired symbionts. In addition to our biogeographic sampling, we administered antibiotics to Argentine ants to determine if changes in the micro--symbiont community could influence behavior and survival in interspecific interactions. Treatment with the antibiotics spectinomycin and kanamycin only slightly increased Argentine ant interspecific aggression, but this increase significantly decreased survival in interspecific interactions. The survival of the native ant species also decreased when the symbiotic microbial community within Argentine ants was modified by antibiotics. Our work offers support for both the enemy release hypothesis and that invasive species accumulate novel microbial taxa within their invaded range. These changes appear likely to influence invader behavior and survival.	2017	98	10.1002/ecy.1714
Wu, JY; Anderson, BJ; Buckley, HL; Lewis, G; Lear, G	Aspect has a greater impact on alpine soil bacterial community structure than elevation	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Gradients in environmental conditions, including climate factors and resource availability, occur along mountain inclines, providing a natural laboratory to explore their combined impacts on microbial distributions. Conflicting spatial patterns observed across elevation gradients in soil bacterial community structure suggest that they are driven by various interacting factors at different spatial scales. Here, we investigated the relative impacts of non-resource (e. g. soil temperature, pH) and resource conditions (e. g. soil carbon and nitrogen) on the biogeography of soil bacterial communities across broad (i. e. along a 1500 m mountain elevation gradient) and fine sampling scales (i. e. along sunny and shady aspects of a mountain ridge). Our analysis of 16S rRNA gene data confirmed that when sampling across distances of < 1000 m, bacterial community composition was more closely related to the aspect of a site than its elevation. However, despite large differences in climate and resource-availability factors across elevation-and aspect-related gradients, bacterial community composition and richness were most strongly correlated with soil pH. These findings highlight the need to incorporate knowledge of multiple factors, including site aspect and soil pH for the appropriate use of elevation gradients as a proxy to explore the impacts of climate change on microbial community composition.	2017	93	10.1093/femsec/fiw253
Samuelson, DR; Burnham, EL; Maffei, VJ; Vandivier, W; Blanchard, EE; Shellito, JE; Luo, M; Taylor, CM; Welsh, DA	Analysis of the respiratory tract microbial biogeography in alcohol use disorder populations	ALCOHOL		2017	59	
Gibbons, SM	Metapopulation theory provides new insight into microbial biogeography	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY		2017	19	10.1111/1462-2920.13702
Hernando-Morales, V; Ameneiro, J; Teira, E	Water mass mixing shapes bacterial biogeography in a highly hydrodynamic region of the Southern Ocean	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Even though compelling evidences indicate that marine microbes show biogeographic patterns, very little is known on the mechanisms driving those patterns in aquatic ecosystems. In the present study, bacterial community structure was examined in epipelagic waters of a highly hydrodynamic area of the Southern Ocean to gain insight into the role that biogeochemical factors and water mass mixing (a proxy of dispersal) have on microbial biogeography. Four water masses that converge and mix around the South Shetland Islands (northern tip of the Antarctic Peninsula) were investigated. Bacterioplankton communities were water-mass specific, and were best explained by dispersal rather than by biogeochemical factors, which is attributed to the relatively reduced environmental gradients found in these cold and nutrient rich waters. These results support the notionthat currents and water mixing may have a considerable effect in connecting and transforming different water bodies, and consequently, in shaping communities of microorganisms. Considering the multidimensional and dynamic nature of the ocean, analysis of water mass mixing is a more suitable approach to investigate the role of dispersal on the biogeography of planktonic microorganisms rather than geographical distance.	2017	19	10.1111/1462-2920.13538
Lindh, MV; Sjostedt, J; Ekstam, B; Casini, M; Lundin, D; Hugerth, LW; Hu, YOO; Andersson, AF; Andersson, A; Legrand, C; Pinhassi, J	Metapopulation theory identifies biogeographical patterns among core and satellite marine bacteria scaling from tens to thousands of kilometers	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Metapopulation theory developed in terrestrial ecology provides applicable frameworks for interpreting the role of local and regional processes in shaping species distribution patterns. Yet, empirical testing of metapopulation models on microbial communities is essentially lacking. We determined regional bacterioplankton dynamics from monthly transect sampling in the Baltic Sea Proper using 16S rRNA gene sequencing. A strong positive trend was found between local relative abundance and occupancy of populations. Notably, the occupancy-frequency distributions were significantly bimodal with a satellite mode of rare endemic populations and a core mode of abundant cosmopolitan populations (e.g. Synechococcus, SAR11 and SAR86 clade members). Temporal changes in population distributions supported several theoretical frameworks. Still, bimodality was found among bacterioplankton communities across the entire Baltic Sea, and was also frequent in globally distributed datasets. Datasets spanning waters with widely different physicochemical characteristics or environmental gradients typically lacked significant bimodal patterns. When such datasets were divided into subsets with coherent environmental conditions, bimodal patterns emerged, highlighting the importance of positive feedbacks between local abundance and occupancy within specific biomes. Thus, metapopulation theory applied to microbial biogeography can provide novel insights into the mechanisms governing shifts in biodiversity resulting from natural or anthropogenically induced changes in the environment.	2017	19	10.1111/1462-2920.13650
Johnson, RM; Ramond, JB; Gunnigle, E; Seely, M; Cowan, DA	Namib Desert edaphic bacterial, fungal and archaeal communities assemble through deterministic processes but are influenced by different abiotic parameters	EXTREMOPHILES	The central Namib Desert is hyperarid, where limited plant growth ensures that biogeochemical processes are largely driven by microbial populations. Recent research has shown that niche partitioning is critically involved in the assembly of Namib Desert edaphic communities. However, these studies have mainly focussed on the Domain Bacteria. Using microbial community fingerprinting, we compared the assembly of the bacterial, fungal and archaeal populations of microbial communities across nine soil niches from four Namib Desert soil habitats (riverbed, dune, gravel plain and salt pan). Permutational multivariate analysis of variance indicated that the nine soil niches presented significantly different physicochemistries (R-2 = 0.8306, P <= 0.0001) and that bacterial, fungal and archaeal populations were soil niche specific (R-2 >= 0.64, P <= 0.001). However, the abiotic drivers of community structure were Domain-specific (P < 0.05), with P, clay and sand fraction, and -NH4 influencing bacterial, fungal and archaeal communities, respectively. Soil physicochemistry and soil niche explained over 50% of the variation in community structure, and communities displayed strong non-random patterns of co-occurrence. Taken together, these results demonstrate that in central Namib Desert soil microbial communities, assembly is principally driven by deterministic processes.	2017	21	10.1007/s00792-016-0911-1
Liao, JQ; Cao, XF; Wang, J; Zhao, L; Sun, JH; Jiang, DL; Huang, Y	Similar community assembly mechanisms underlie similar biogeography of rare and abundant bacteria in lakes on Yungui Plateau, China	LIMNOLOGY AND OCEANOGRAPHY	The revolution of molecular techniques in the field of microbial ecology not only allows an in-depth exploration of abundant bacteria, but also confirms the existence of rare biosphere. However, the mechanisms underlying the assembly process of abundant and rare bacteria in plateau lakes are still poorly understood. In the present study, distribution of abundant and rare bacteria in 21 lakes on Yungui Plateau, China and the relative importance of deterministic and neutral factors to their biogeographic patterns were examined. Results surprisingly showed that similar biogeographic patterns of rare and abundant taxa were generally shaped via similar assembly mechanisms. For both bacterial groups, deterministic process strongly influenced the distribution, while neutral process was not at play. In addition, they both exhibited a weak distance-decay relationship. Nevertheless, environmental drivers of rare and abundant taxa and their importance were not exactly the same. Water physicochemical property was the most dominant driver shaping the biogeographic pattern of rare taxa, followed by lake morphology and watershed land-use, while for abundant taxa, watershed land-use was the most dominant driver and lake morphology did not play a significant role. This study suggested that rare bacteria in high-altitude aquatic ecosystems might experience equally low extinction risk and respond to environmental changes in a similar manner to abundant ones, but their ecological niches and functions were not identical. To fully understand the assembly mechanism of bacterial community, it is necessary to differentiate the community by traits of taxa.	2017	62	10.1002/lno.10455
Strom, S; Bright, K; Fredrickson, K; Brahamsha, B	The Synechococcus cell surface protein SwmA increases vulnerability to predation by flagellates and ciliates	LIMNOLOGY AND OCEANOGRAPHY	The genus Synechococcus, a major contributor to ocean productivity, exhibits wide genetic variability and a distinct biogeography of genetic subgroups. Synechococcus sp. strain WH8102 is a motile Sargasso Sea isolate belonging to Clade III in subcluster 5.1. Non-flagellar motility in WH8102 depends upon two large cell surface proteins, SwmA and SwmB. In the marine plankton, Synechococcus can experience high rates of mortality from protist predators, suggesting strong selective pressure for the maintenance of anti-predation defenses. We used knockout mutants deficient in large cell surface proteins (SwmA- and SwmB-) to test the hypothesis that these proteins defend WH8102 against predation by ciliates and flagellates, important consumers of Synechococcus in aquatic ecosystems. Contrary to our hypothesis, we found that wild-type WH8102 were preyed upon at higher rates than SwmA- by ciliates and by two of three tested flagellate species. Thus the SwmA protein, constitutively produced by WH8102, made this strain more rather than less vulnerable to predation. SwmA proteins link to form the S layer, a cell coating known to promote adhesion in other microbial systems, suggesting the predation vulnerability arises from increased attachment between consumers and prey. Given the SwmA-related enhancement of predation rates, our findings suggest two possibilities for WH8102 and perhaps other Clade III Synechococcus: (1) factors other than protist predation select for production of the S layer; (2) ingestion actually increases fitness, by exposing digestion-resistant cells to beneficial conditions in the food vacuole.	2017	62	10.1002/lno.10460
Striluk, ML; Aho, K; Weber, CF	The effect of season and terrestrial biome on the abundance of bacteria with plant growth-promoting traits in the lower atmosphere	AEROBIOLOGIA	Recent studies indicate that airborne bacteria follow biogeographical distributions that are influenced by the underlying terrestrial biomes. Nonetheless, dynamics of bacterial fluxes between different terrestrial biomes and the atmosphere and their implications for terrestrial ecology are not well understood. This study examined how season and three different terrestrial biomes affect the abundance of culturable bacteria with three types of plant growth-promoting traits (PGPTs; phosphate-solubilization, siderophore-production, indoleacetic acid production) in the lower atmosphere. Air samples (180 L) were collected onto Petri dishes containing one of three different agar media for cultivating bacteria with the above-named PGPT in replicates of five above three distinct terrestrial biomes (aspen-forest, sagebrush-steppe, and suburban; Pocatello, ID, USA). Air was sampled once per week for three consecutive weeks during each of four seasons (autumn 2014 to summer 2015). Sequence libraries (16S rRNA gene) were also generated from air collected at each site during each sampling event. All three types of bacteria were present in the lower atmosphere above all terrestrial biomes during all seasons, but their abundance (P < 0.05) fluctuated with season, and the abundance of phosphate-solubilizers and siderophore-producers fluctuated with the interaction of biome and season (P < 0.05). Cultured bacteria with PGPTs represented 13 families; these families were also represented by 28.3-61.3 % of sequences in each of the 36-sequence libraries derived from air samples. Results of this first survey of airborne bacteria with PGPTs provide evidence that they may be ubiquitous in the lower atmosphere through which their transport to new habitats, particularly those in early successional stages, may impact ecosystem development.	2017	33	10.1007/s10453-016-9456-0
Zhang, SC; Cao, XC; Huang, H	Sampling Strategies for Three-Dimensional Spatial Community Structures in IBD Microbiota Research	FRONTIERS IN CELLULAR AND INFECTION MICROBIOLOGY	Identifying intestinal microbiota is arguably an important task that is performed to determine the pathogenesis of inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD); thus, it is crucial to collect and analyze intestinally-associated microbiota. Analyzing a single niche to categorize individuals does not enable researchers to comprehensively study the spatial variations of the microbiota. Therefore, characterizing the spatial community structures of the inflammatory bowel disease microbiome is critical for advancing our understanding of the inflammatory landscape of IBD. However, at present there is no universally accepted consensus regarding the use of specific sampling strategies in different biogeographic locations. In this review, we discuss the spatial distribution when screening sample collections in IBD microbiota research. Here, we propose a novel model, a three-dimensional spatial community structure, which encompasses the x-, y-, and z-axis distributions; it can be used in some sampling sites, such as feces, colonoscopic biopsy, the mucus gel layer, and oral cavity. On the basis of this spatial model, this article also summarizes various sampling and processing strategies prior to and after DNA extraction and recommends guidelines for practical application in future research.	2017	7	10.3389/fcimb.2017.00051
Ferrera, I; Sarmento, H; Priscu, JC; Chiuchiolo, A; Gonzalez, JM; Grossart, HP	Diversity and Distribution of Freshwater Aerobic Anoxygenic Phototrophic Bacteria across a Wide Latitudinal Gradient	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Aerobic anoxygenic phototrophs (AAPs) have been shown to exist in numerous marine and brackish environments where they are hypothesized to play important ecological roles. Despite their potential significance, the study of freshwater AAPs is in its infancy and limited to local investigations. Here, we explore the occurrence, diversity and distribution of AAPs in lakes covering a wide latitudinal gradient: Mongolian and German lakes located in temperate regions of Eurasia, tropical Great East African lakes, and polar permanently ice-covered Antarctic lakes. Our results show a widespread distribution of AAPs in lakes with contrasting environmental conditions and confirm that this group is composed of different members of the Alpha- and Betaproteobacteria. While latitude does not seem to strongly influence AAP abundance, clear patterns of community structure and composition along geographic regions were observed as indicated by a strong macro-geographical signal in the taxonomical composition of AAPs. Overall, our results suggest that the distribution patterns of freshwater AAPs are likely driven by a combination of small-scale environmental conditions (specific of each lake and region) and large-scale geographic factors (climatic regions across a latitudinal gradient).	2017	8	10.3389/fmicb.2017.00175
Song, Q; Zheng, YJ; Xue, Y; Sheng, WG; Zhao, MR	An evolutionary deep neural network for predicting morbidity of gastrointestinal infections by food contamination	NEUROCOMPUTING	A majority of gastrointestinal infectious diseases are caused by food contamination, and prediction of morbidity can be very useful for etiological factor controlling and medical resource utilization. However, an accurate prediction is often very difficult not only because there are various types of food and contaminants, but also because the relationship between the diseases and the contaminants is highly complex and probabilistic. In this study, we use the deep denoising autoencoder (DDAE) to model the effect of food contamination on gastrointestinal infections, and thus provide a valuable tool for morbidity prediction. For effectively training the model with high-dimensional input data, we propose an evolutionary learning algorithm based on ecogeography-based optimization (EBO) in order to avoid premature convergence. Experimental results show that our evolutionary deep learning model obtains a much higher prediction accuracy than the shallow artificial neural network (ANN) model and the DDAE with other learning algorithms on a real-world dataset.	2017	226	10.1016/j.neucom.2016.11.018
Lymperopoulou, DS; Dobbs, FC	Bacterial Diversity in Ships Ballast Water, Ballast-Water Exchange, and Implications for Ship-Mediated Dispersal of Microorganisms	ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY	Using next-generation DNA sequencing of the 16S rRNA gene, we analyzed the composition and diversity of bacterial assemblages in ballast water from tanks of 17 commercial ships arriving to Hampton Roads, Virginia (USA) following voyages in the North Atlantic Ocean. Amplicon sequencing analysis showed the heterogeneous assemblages were (1) dominated by Alpha- and Gammaproteobacteria, Bacteroidetes, and unclassified Bacteria; (2) temporally distinct (June vs August/September); and (3) highly fidelitous among replicate samples. Whether tanks were exchanged at sea or not, their bacterial assemblages differed from those of local, coastal water. Compositional data suggested at-sea exchange did not fully flush coastal Bacteria from all tanks; there were several instances of a genetic geographic signal. Quantitative PCR yielded no Escherichia coli and few instances of Vibrio species. Salinity, but not ballast-water age or temperature, contributed significantly to bacterial diversity. Whether anthropogenic mixing of marine Bacteria restructures their biogeography remains to be tested.	2017	51	10.1021/acs.est.6b03108
Marino, CM; Pawlik, JR; Lopez-Legentil, S; Erwin, PM	Latitudinal variation in the microbiome of the sponge Ircinia campana correlates with host haplotype but not anti-predatory chemical defense	MARINE ECOLOGY PROGRESS SERIES	Many marine sponges host diverse symbiotic microbial communities that have been implicated in the production of secondary metabolites. These metabolites may defend the host sponge from potential predators. Variability in symbiont communities across the range of the host sponge could alter levels of chemical defense. To investigate the relationship between symbiont composition and chemical defense, the microbiomes and palatability of tissue samples from Ircinia campana were characterized from 5 sites along a latitudinal gradient spanning temperate (South Atlantic Bight, SAB) and tropical (Caribbean) regions. Terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis and Illumina sequencing of 16S ribosomal RNA genes revealed that I. campana from different locations contained significantly distinct microbiomes and exhibited a consistent relationship of lower symbiont similarity over greater geographic distance (i.e. distance-decay). However, crude organic extracts of all samples of I. campana were unpalatable to assay fish Thalassoma bifasciatum in laboratory assays, indicating no difference in chemical defense across locations. Distinct haplotypes of I. campana were detected in populations from the SAB and Caribbean, correlating with the observed patterns of latitudinal variation in microbial symbiont communities. Our findings indicate that I. campana is chemically defended from fish predators across the range of the species and that latitudinal variation occurs in the microbiome of I. campana, driven by a combination of host-specific factors and region-specific environmental filtering of symbiont communities.	2017	565	10.3354/meps12015
Li, Z; Lu, LH; Guo, JS; Yang, JX; Zhang, JC; He, B; Xu, LL	Responses of spatial-temporal dynamics of bacterioplankton community to large-scale reservoir operation: a case study in the Three Gorges Reservoir, China	SCIENTIFIC REPORTS	Large rivers are commonly regulated by damming, yet the effects of such disruption on bacterioplankton community structures have not been adequately studied. The aim of this study was to explore the biogeographical patterns present under dam regulation and to uncover the major drivers structuring bacterioplankton communities. Bacterioplankton assemblages in the Three Gorges Reservoir (TGR) were analyzed using Illumina Miseq sequencing by comparing seven sites located within the TGR before and after impoundment. This approach revealed ecological and spatial-temporal variations in bacterioplankton community composition along the longitudinal axis. The community was dynamic and dominated by Proteobacteria and Actinobacteria phyla, encompassing 39.26% and 37.14% of all sequences, respectively, followed by Bacteroidetes (8.67%) and Cyanobacteria (3.90%). The Shannon-Wiener index of the bacterioplankton community in the flood season (August) was generally higher than that in the impoundment season (November). Principal Component Analysis of the bacterioplankton community compositions showed separation between different seasons and sampling sites. Results of the relationship between bacterioplankton community compositions and environmental variables highlighted that ecological processes of element cycling and large dam disturbances are of prime importance in driving the assemblages of riverine bacterioplankton communities.	2017	7	10.1038/srep42469
Yang, SH; Zhang, YG; Cong, J; Wang, MM; Zhao, MX; Lu, H; Xie, CY; Yang, CY; Yuan, T; Li, DQ; Zhou, JZ; Gu, BH; Yang, YF	Variations of Soil Microbial Community Structures Beneath Broadleaved Forest Trees in Temperate and Subtropical Climate Zones	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Global warming has shifted climate zones poleward or upward. However, understanding the responses and mechanism of microbial community structure and functions relevant to natural climate zone succession is challenged by the high complexity of microbial communities. Here, we examined soil microbial community in three broadleaved forests located in the Wulu Mountain (WLM, temperate climate), Funiu Mountain (FNM, at the border of temperate and subtropical climate zones), or Shennongjia Mountain (SNJ, subtropical climate). Although plant species richness decreased with latitudes, the microbial taxonomic alpha-diversity increased with latitudes, concomitant with increases in soil total and available nitrogen and phosphorus contents. Phylogenetic NRI (Net Relatedness Index) values increased from -0.718 in temperate zone (WLM) to 1.042 in subtropical zone (SNJ), showing a shift from over dispersion to clustering likely caused by environmental filtering such as low pH and nutrients. Similarly, taxonomy-based association networks of subtropical forest samples were larger and tighter, suggesting clustering. In contrast, functional alpha-diversity was similar among three forests, but functional gene networks of the FNM forest significantly (P < 0.050) differed from the others. A significant correlation (R = 0.616, P < 0.001) between taxonomic and functional beta-diversity was observed only in the FNM forest, suggesting low functional redundancy at the border of climate zones. Using a strategy of space-fortime substitution, we predict that poleward climate range shift will lead to decreased microbial taxonomic alpha-diversities in broadleaved forest.	2017	8	10.3389/fmicb.2017.00200
Washburne, AD; Silverman, JD; Leff, JW; Bennett, DJ; Darcy, JL; Mukherjee, S; Fierer, N; David, LA	Phylogenetic factorization of compositional data yields lineage-level associations in microbiome datasets	PEERJ	Marker gene sequencing of microbial communities has generated big datasets of microbial relative abundances varying across environmental conditions, sample sites and treatments. These data often come with putative phylogenies, providing unique opportunities to investigate how shared evolutionary history affects microbial abundance patterns. Here, we present a method to identify the phylogenetic factors driving patterns in microbial community composition. We use the method, phylofactorization, to re-analyze datasets from the human body and soil microbial communities, demonstrating how phylofactorization is a dimensionality-reducing tool, an ordination-visualization tool, and an inferential tool for identifying edges in the phylogeny along which putative functional ecological traits may have arisen.	2017	5	10.7717/peerj.2969
Volpi, M; Lomstein, BA; Sichert, A; Roy, H; Jorgensen, BB; Kjeldsen, KU	Identity, abundance and reactivation kinetics of thermophilic fermentative endospores in cold marine sediment and seawater	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Cold marine sediments harbor endospores of fermentative and sulfate-reducing, thermophilic bacteria. These dormant populations of endospores are believed to accumulate in the seabed via passive dispersal by ocean currents followed by sedimentation from the water column. However, the magnitude of this process is poorly understood because the endospores present in seawater were so far not identified, and only the abundance of thermophilic sulfate-reducing endospores in the seabed has been quantified. We investigated the distribution of thermophilic fermentative endospores (TFEs) in water column and sediment of Aarhus Bay, Denmark, to test the role of suspended dispersal and determine the rate of endospore deposition and the endospore abundance in the sediment. We furthermore aimed to determine the time course of reactivation of the germinating TFEs. TFEs were induced to germinate and grow by incubating pasteurized sediment and water samples anaerobically at 50 degrees C. We observed a sudden release of the endospore component dipicolinic acid immediately upon incubation suggesting fast endospore reactivation in response to heating. Volatile fatty acids (VFAs) and H-2 began to accumulate exponentially after 3.5 h of incubation showing that reactivation was followed by a short phase of outgrowth before germinated cells began to divide. Thermophilic fermenters were mainly present in the sediment as endospores because the rate of VFA accumulation was identical in pasteurized and non-pasteurized samples. Germinating TFEs were identified taxonomically by reverse transcription, PCR amplification and sequencing of 16S rRNA. The water column and sediment shared the same phylotypes, thereby confirming the potential for seawater dispersal. The abundance of TFEs was estimated by most probable number enumeration, rates of VFA production, and released amounts of dipicolinic acid during germination. The surface sediment contained similar to 105-106 inducible TFEs cm(-3). TFEs thus outnumber thermophilic sulfate-reducing endospores by an order of magnitude. The abundance of cultivable TFEs decreased exponentially with sediment depth with a half-life of 350 years. We estimate that 6 X 109 anaerobic thermophilic endospores are deposited on the seafloor per m2 per year in Aarhus Bay, and that these thermophiles represent >10% of the total endospore community in the surface sediment.	2017	8	10.3389/fmicb.2017.00131
Djurhuus, A; Read, JF; Rogers, AD	The spatial distribution of particulate organic carbon and microorganisms on seamounts of the South West Indian Ridge	DEEP-SEA RESEARCH PART II-TOPICAL STUDIES IN OCEANOGRAPHY	The ecology and biogeochemistry of oceanic seamounts is not very well understood and explored. Pelagic ecosystems above the summits and flanks of seamounts have been observed to show different biological or biogeochemical properties to off-seamount areas, such as enhanced chlorophyll concentrations, a phenomenon referred to as the seamount effect. In addition, seamount biogeography has been hypothesised to be similar to islands where community structure differences in multiple organisms have been shown to change between seamounts and across frontal systems. We used elemental analysis, to measure particulate organic carbon (POC), and flow cytometry, to estimate abundance of microorganisms from above four seamounts (Coral, Melville, Middle of What and Atlantis) along the Southwest Indian Ridge (SWIR) from latitude 32.6 degrees S to 41.3 degrees S, longitude 57.1 degrees E to 42.7 degrees E. Samples were collected from the surface to the bottom using a CTD fitted with optical sensors. POC was predicted from models created from in-situ transmission (optical) data (c(p)). The high resolution predicted POC in the euphotic zone showed a heterogeneous distribution both above individual and between seamounts. The shallow penetration of two of the seamounts displayed an effect on the POC concentration in the euphotic zone depleting the layer around the summit. The transmission data showed higher concentrations of particles towards the surface, caused by primary production, and near to the seabed, probably resulting from re-suspension of sediments. The POC concentrations and microbial abundance were positively correlated to c(p) and fluctuated with particle abundance, with microorganisms accounting for similar to 50% of the observed POC. Based on non-metric multidimensional scaling it is clear that the microbial clusters strongly indicate three separate biological regimes associated with northeastern, central and southwestern zones of the section of the SWIR that was sampled. This biological zonation is associated with physical oceanographic boundaries represented by the Subtropical and Subantarctic Fronts, forming three distinct biogeographical regions. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2017	136	10.1016/j.dsr2.2015.11.015
Lu, XD; Seuradge, BJ; Neufeld, JD	Biogeography of soil Thaumarchaeota in relation to soil depth and land usage	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Although Thaumarchaeota are important contributors to ammonia oxidation in terrestrial habitats, distributions of ammonia oxidizers along soil depth profiles are poorly understood, especially in relation to distinct land usages. Leveraging the close proximity of forest, field and agricultural plots at the rare Charitable Research Reserve, we examined soil thaumarchaeotal biogeography at three different depths (0-15, 15-30 and 30-45 cm) from plots within areas of contrasting land usage. Data from high-throughput sequencing of thaumarchaeotal 16S rRNA gene sequences demonstrated that OTU richness was affected significantly by depth and land-use type. Specifically, thaumarchaeotal diversity was higher in soils from forest sites than from field sites, and lower within 0-15 cm soils than either 15-30 cm or 30-45 cm soils. Soil land-use type influenced the relative abundance of the Soil Crenarchaeota Group (SCG), with a lower relative abundance of SCG in forest sites compared to field sites. At the OTU level, thaumarchaeotal communities changed with increasing soil depth for agricultural soils, in contrast to homogeneous depth profiles generated from forest site samples. Soil pH was the strongest factor impacting thaumarchaeotal community composition and, importantly, the evenness of archaeal taxa. Nitrogen, carbon and soil texture shaped thaumarchaeotal community composition among field site samples.	2017	93	10.1093/femsec/fiw246
Seuradge, BJ; Josh, MO; Neufeld, JD	Depth-dependent influence of different land-use systems on bacterial biogeography	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Despite progress in understanding microbial biogeography of surface soils, few studies have investigated depth-dependent distributions of terrestrial microorganisms in subsoils. We leveraged high-throughput sequencing of 16S rRNA genes obtained from soils collected from the rare Charitable Research Reserve (Cambridge, ON, Canada) to assess the influence of depth on bacterial communities across various land-use types. Although bacterial communities were strongly influenced by depth across all sites, the magnitude of this influence was variable and demonstrated that land-use attributes also played a significant role in shaping soil bacterial communities. Soil pH exhibited a large gradient across samples and strongly influenced shifts in bacterial communities with depth and across different land-use systems, especially considering that physicochemical conditions showed generally consistent trends with depth. We observed significant (p <= 0.001) and strongly correlated taxa with depth and pH, with a strong predominance of positively depth-correlated OTUs without cultured representatives. These findings highlight the importance of depth in soil biogeographical surveys and that subsurface soils harbour understudied bacterial members with potentially unique and important functions in deeper soil horizons that remain to be characterized.	2017	93	10.1093/femsec/fiw239
Manrique, JM; Jones, LR	Are ocean currents to slow to counteract SAR11 evolution? A next-generation sequencing, phylogeographic analysis	MOLECULAR PHYLOGENETICS AND EVOLUTION	This work set out to shed light on the phylogeography of the SAR11 Glade of Alphaproteobacteria, which is probably the most abundant group of heterotrophic bacteria on Earth. In particular, we assessed the degree to which empirical evidence (environmental DNA sequences) supports the concept that SAR11 lineages evolve faster than they are dispersed thus generating vicariant distributions, as predicted by recent simulation efforts. We generated 16S rRNA gene sequences from surface seawater collected at the South West Atlantic Ocean and combined these data with previously published sequences from similar environments from elsewhere. Altogether, these data consisted in about 1e6 reads, from which we generated 355,306 high quality sequences of which 95,318 corresponded to SAR11. Quantitative phylogeographic analyses supported the existence of a spatially explicit distribution of SAR11 species and provided evidence in favor of the idea that dispersal limitations significantly contribute to SAR11 radiation throughout the worlds oceans. Likewise, pairwise phylogenetic distances between the communities studied here were significantly correlated with the genetic divergences predicted by a previously proposed neutral model. As discussed in the paper, these findings are compatible with the concept that the ocean surface constitutes a homogeneous environment for SAR11, in agreement with previous experimental data. We discuss the implications of this hypothesis in a global change scenario. This is the first study combining high throughput sequencing and phylogenic analysis to study bacterial phylogeography and reporting a distance decay pattern of phylogenetic distances for bacteria. (C) 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.	2017	107	10.1016/j.ympev.2016.11.015
Cornils, A; Wend-Heckmann, B; Held, C	Global phylogeography of Oithona similis s.l. (Crustacea, Copepoda, Oithonidae) - A cosmopolitan plankton species or a complex of cryptic lineages?	MOLECULAR PHYLOGENETICS AND EVOLUTION	Traditionally, many small-sized copepod species are considered to be widespread, bipolar or cosmopolitan. However, these large-scale distribution patterns need to be re-examined in view of increasing evidence of cryptic and pseudo-cryptic speciation in pelagic copepods. Here, we present a phylogeographic study of Oithona similis s.l. populations from the Arctic Ocean, the Southern Ocean and its northern boundaries, the North Atlantic and the Mediterrranean Sea. O. similis s.l. is considered as one of the most abundant species in temperate to polar oceans and acts as an important link in the trophic network between the microbial loop and higher trophic levels such as fish larvae. Two gene fragments were analysed: the mitochondria] cytochrome oxidase c subunit I (COI), and the nuclear ribosomal 28 S genetic marker. Seven distinct, geographically delimitated, mitochondria] lineages could be identified, with divergences among the lineages ranging from 8 to 24%, thus representing most likely cryptic or pseudocryptic species within O. similis s.l. Four lineages were identified within or close to the borders of the Southern Ocean, one lineage in the Arctic Ocean and two lineages in the temperate Northern hemisphere. Surprisingly the Arctic lineage was more closely related to lineages from the Southern hemisphere than to the other lineages from the Northern hemisphere, suggesting that geographic proximity is a rather poor predictor of how closely related the clades are on a genetic level. (C) 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.	2017	107	10.1016/j.ympev.2016.12.019
Ellis, KA; Cohen, NR; Moreno, C; Marchetti, A	Cobalamin-independent Methionine Synthase Distribution and Influence on Vitamin B12 Growth Requirements in Marine Diatoms	PROTIST	The requirement for cobalamin (vitamin B-12) in microalgae is primarily a function of the type of methionine synthase present within their gene repertoires. Our study validates this concept through analysis of the distribution of B-12-independent methionine synthase in ecologically relevant diatom genera, including the closely related bloom-forming genera Pseudo-nitzschia and Fragilariopsis. Growth and gene expression analysis of the vitamin B-12-requiring version of the methionine synthase enzyme, METH, and the B-1-independent version, METE, demonstrate that it is the presence of the METE gene which allows Fragilariopsis cylindrus to grow in the absence of B-12. Pseudo-nitzschia granifs lack of a functional METE gene means that it cannot survive without the vitamin. Through phylogenetic analysis, we further substantiate a lack of obvious grouping in METE presence among diatom clades. In addition, we also show how this trend may have a biogeographical basis, particularly in regions such as the Southern Ocean where B-12 concentrations may be consistently low. Our findings demonstrate the important role vitamins can play in diatom community dynamics within areas where vitamin supply may be variable and limiting. (C)2016 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.	2017	168	10.1016/j.protis.2016.10.007
Glassman, SI; Lubetkin, KC; Chung, JA; Bruns, TD	The theory of island biogeography applies to ectomycorrhizal fungi in subalpine tree islands at a fine scale	ECOSPHERE	The theory of island biogeography, which predicts that species richness is a function of island size and distance from the mainland, is well tested with macro-fauna and flora. Yet, in many ways, microbes are more appropriate for testing this and other ecological theories due to their small size and short generation times that translate to an ease of replication. We used a natural experimental system of isolated host islands to test the generality of the theory of island biogeography. Specifically, we tested whether ectomycorrhizal fungal (EMF) richness increased with tree size and decreased with distance from forest in a subalpine basin in Yosemite National Park for two congeneric pine species, Pinus albicaulis and Pinus contorta. We determined EMF richness with next-generation sequencing, measured the size and age of each tree island (n = 40), and calculated geographic distances from each tree to the nearest forest edge. We found that EMF richness increased with island size (as measured by tree volume) and tree age for both pine species and decreased with distance from forest edge for P. albicaulis. Thus, we show the applicability of the theory to microbial symbionts in harsh, dry, and likely non-equilibrium systems. In addition, we found that despite the fact that our tree islands had a mean age of 65 yr, a pioneer community of EMF dominated. We interpret this as evidence that water stress interacts with succession to create a sustained period of early-stage fungi even in mature trees.	2017	8	10.1002/ecs2.1677
Haggerty, JM; Dinsdale, EA	Distinct biogeographical patterns of marine bacterial taxonomy and functional genes	GLOBAL ECOLOGY AND BIOGEOGRAPHY	AimWhile paradigms of macroecology are challenged by the high rates of reproduction, dispersal and horizontal gene exchange of bacterial communities, environmental DNA sequencing makes community profiles accessible. We test fundamental hypotheses of macroecological theories, showing that both taxonomic and functional classifications have distinct biogeographical variation across distance and environments depending on trophic composition. LocationStudies spanning the global oceans. MethodsTaxonomic and functional profiles were obtained from metagenomes and were compared across oceanographic regions and tested for patterns of co-occurrence. The influences of sampling method (filter size), environmental variables and geographical distribution were compared with distance-based linear models to test predictors of taxonomic and functional composition. Macroecological drivers were compared with bacterial community structure to test four biogeographical hypotheses: (1) no biogeographical patterns, (2) community structure reflects environmental dissimilarity, (3) community structure reflects distance, (4) community structure reflects environment and distance. ResultsBacterial families were clustered into four trophic groups - phototrophic, oligotrophic, eutrophic and copiotrophic - by changes in abundance across oceanographic regions and co-occurrence with core functions. Changes in community composition were best modelled by longitude for free-living communities and dissolved oxygen for mixed communities of free-living and particle-associated bacteria. Both microhabitat and community assignment had an impact on biogeographical patterns, with taxonomic compositions following our hypotheses 2 and 4 and functional gene compositions following hypotheses 3 and 4. Main conclusionsWe described four trophic groups adding to the current dichotomy of the classification of marine bacteria as oligotrophic or copiotrophic. Taxonomic composition of mixed communities reflected environmental differences but not geographical distance, whereas functional gene composition in free-living communities was independent of environmental dissimilarity and reflected geographical distance. Patterns of biogeography in bacterial communities differed depending on the description of taxa or function. Therefore, we developed a new paradigm for bacterial ecology which shows that some aspects of bacterial evolution depend on trophic complexity, history and current environmental conditions.	2017	26	10.1111/geb.12528
Roman-Jordan, E; Esteban, LG; de Palacios, P; Fernandez, FG	Comparative wood anatomy of the Cupressaceae and correspondence with phylogeny, with special reference to the monotypic taxa	PLANT SYSTEMATICS AND EVOLUTION	Wood anatomy is one of the tools used for taxonomic classification of species. By combining this tool with molecular phylogeny, the current groupings made in morphological studies can be discussed. This study describes the wood anatomy of the monotypic genera of Cupressaceae and analyses the features that could represent synapomorphies of the principal clades recovered by molecular phylogeny. The wood anatomical study shows the high homogeneity of this family, revealing the presence of common ancestral features that support the union between Taxodiaceae and Cupressaceae s.s. and the separation of Sciadopitys. It also supports the group formed by Taxodiaceae in Cupressaceae s.l. No clear division was observed between the callitroid and cupressoid clades. Some wood anatomical differences were observed in the Fitzroya-Diselma-Pilgerodendron and Microbiota-Platycladus-Tetraclinis associations. The wood anatomical features common to the family, such as axial tracheids without helical thickenings, homogeneous rays, cupressoid cross-field pits and the presence of a warty layer, are put forward as possible synapomorphies for Cupressaceae s.l. The clade-specific synapomorphies are taxodioid cross-field pits for taxodioid and sequoioid clades, absence of a well-defined torus in Thuja-Thujopsis and torus extensions in Diselma-Fitzroya-Widdringtonia.	2017	303	10.1007/s00606-016-1364-9
Dong, CM; Sheng, HF; Wang, WG; Zhou, HW; Shao, ZZ	Bacterial distribution pattern in the surface sediments distinctive among shelf, slope and basin across the western Arctic Ocean	POLAR BIOLOGY	The Arctic Ocean is undergoing a rapid change due to global climate change. Knowledge about bacterial community composition will help us to evaluate their ecological role and predict possible community shifts in future. To this end, we collected 11 sediment samples across the western Arctic Ocean from shelf near to the North Pole, spanning three geographical regions: ice-free Chukchi Shelf, more than 90 % ice-covered Canadian Basin and the partial ice-covered slopes between them. The spatial distribution of bacterial community composition was examined by 16S rRNA gene using Illumina high-throughput sequencing in conjunction with sediment geophysicochemical variables and sampling geographical distance. Overall, Proteobacteria, Acidobacteria, Planctomycetes, Actinobacteria, Chloroflexi, Gemmatimonadetes, Bacteroidetes, Verrucomicrobia, Nitrospira and Thermomicrobia were the top ten dominant phyla. The bacterial communities from the same region exhibited similar composition pattern, but distinctive in each region. Statistical analysis (linear discriminant analysis effect size) showed Deltaproteobacteria, Gammaproteobacteria and Alphaproteobacteria were the distinct taxa in Chukchi Shelf, Slopes and Canadian Basin, respectively. Correspondingly, Desulfobacterales, Planctomycetales and Rhodospirillales were determined at order level. Canonical correspondence analysis demonstrated bacterial distribution was significantly correlated with sediment geophysicochemical factors and geographical distance. Furthermore, variance partitioning analysis confirmed that the combination of geophysicochemical factors, including sediment nutrients content, grain size, sampling site water depth and ice coverage, contributed more than geographical distance to the spatial distribution of bacterial communities across the western Arctic Ocean. In general, this study offers a snapshot of bacterial community composition under the background in rapidly changing Arctic Ocean.	2017	40	10.1007/s00300-016-1970-6
El Khoury, M; Campbell-Sills, H; Salin, F; Guichoux, E; Claisse, O; Lucas, PM	Biogeography of Oenococcus oeni Reveals Distinctive but Nonspecific Populations in Wine-Producing Regions	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Understanding the mechanisms behind the typicity of regional wines inevitably brings attention to microorganisms associated with their production. Oenococcus oeni is the main bacterial species involved in wine and cider making. It develops after the yeast-driven alcoholic fermentation and performs the malolactic fermentation, which improves the taste and aromatic complexity of most wines. Here, we have evaluated the diversity and specificity of O. oeni strains in six regions. A total of 235 wines and ciders were collected during spontaneous malolactic fermentations and used to isolate 3,212 bacterial colonies. They were typed by multilocus variable analysis, which disclosed a total of 514 O. oeni strains. Their phylogenetic relationships were evaluated by a second typing method based on single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) analysis. Taken together, the results indicate that each region holds a high diversity of strains that constitute a unique population. However, strains present in each region belong to diverse phylogenetic groups, and the same groups can be detected in different regions, indicating that strains are not genetically adapted to regions. In contrast, greater strain identity was seen for cider, white wine, or red wine of Burgundy, suggesting that genetic adaptation to these products occurred. IMPORTANCE This study reports the isolation, genotyping, and geographic distribution analysis of the largest collection of O. oeni strains performed to date. It reveals that there is very high diversity of strains in each region, the majority of them being detected in a single region. The study also reports the development of an SNP genotyping method that is useful for analyzing the distribution of O. oeni phylogroups. The results show that strains are not genetically adapted to regions but to specific types of wines. They reveal new phylogroups of strains, particularly two phylogroups associated with white wines and red wines of Burgundy. Taken together, the results shed light on the diversity and specificity of wild strains of O. oeni, which is crucial for understanding their real contribution to the unique properties of wines.	2017	83	10.1128/AEM.02322-16
Lan, GY; Li, YW; Wu, ZX; Xie, GS	Soil Bacterial Diversity Impacted by Conversion of Secondary Forest to Rubber or Eucalyptus Plantations: A Case Study of Hainan Island, South China	FOREST SCIENCE	Rubber plantation (RP) is the most important economic forest of Hainan Island, South China. In addition, eucalyptus plantations (EP), used as shelter forests, were planted to protect the rubber plantations from typhoon hazards in the 1980s. To date, few studies have examined the effects on bacterial composition and diversity after secondary tropical forests (SF) have been converted into RP or EP. This study investigated the bacterial communities of RP, EP, and SF using an Illumina high-throughput sequencing analysis. Our findings revealed the following First, there were significant differences between RP, EP, and SF in bacterial compositions at both the phylum and family levels. Second, the Shannon indices of RP and EP were significantly higher than that of SF. The Simpson dominance index of SF was 0.012, which was significantly higher than those of RP and EP, indicating that the diversities of RP and EP were higher than that of SF. Abundance rank curves confirmed that the taxonomic compositions in EP and RP were relatively uniformly distributed compared with that in SF, which results in the higher diversities of RP and EP. Third, Soil nutrition (total nitrogen, total phosphorus, and total potassium), which explained 43.05% of the total variance of taxonomic composition, was the most important factor affecting the soil bacterial community structure in this region. In conclusion, soil nutrition has increased, mainly due to the application of fertilizers, after SF conversion to RP and EP, which, in turn, has resulted in significant changes in the bacterial community composition as well as a general increase in bacterial community diversity.	2017	63	10.5849/forsci.16-012
Durrer, A; Gumiere, T; Taketani, RG; da Costa, DP; Silva, MDPE; Andreote, FD	The drivers underlying biogeographical patterns of bacterial communities in soils under sugarcane cultivation	APPLIED SOIL ECOLOGY	The exploration of microbiomes has been posited as one of the pillars for innovative technologies to improve plant health and production. Agriculture is a promising area for this exploration as soils harbor vast and diverse microbial communities. A better understanding of the drivers influencing microbial biogeographical patterns is necessary to properly exploit this resource. Here, we aimed to describe biogeographical patterns of bacterial communities across a broad spatial scale by sampling soils in 10 distinct farms (a total of 285 soil samples) located at the most important region for sugarcane production in Brazil. Bacterial communities were analyzed in terms of community structure and composition and further correlated with soil characteristics, agricultural practices and geographical distances. Distance decay patterns were found either at the bacterial community level (as determined by T-RFLP and sequencing analyses) and at the distribution of most bacterial phyla. Partial redundancy analysis revealed that soil characteristics (i.e., pH, granulometry, potassium and phosphorus contents) and agricultural practices (i.e., amendments of vinasse, charcoal and mechanical harvesting) explained the differential structuring of bacterial communities to a higher extend than did geographical distance. The co-occurrence/mutual-exclusion analysis suggested a role of biological connections in these assemblages, such as the co-occurrence of Proteobacteria and Acidobacteria, both negatively correlated with Actinobacteria. Our data constitute the broadest assessment of biogeographical patterns of bacterial communities across agricultural soils. Collectively, it indicates that these bacterial assemblages are suitable for management, what support the development of microbiome-based strategies in agricultural settings. (C) 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2017	110	10.1016/j.apsoil.2016.11.005
Ristova, PP; Bienhold, C; Wenzhofer, F; Rossel, PE; Boetius, A	Temporal and Spatial Variations of Bacterial and Faunal Communities Associated with Deep-Sea Wood Falls	PLOS ONE	Sinking of large organic food falls i.e. kelp, wood and whale carcasses to the oligotrophic deep-sea floor promotes the establishment of locally highly productive and diverse ecosystems, often with specifically adapted benthic communities. However, the fragmented spatial distribution and small area poses challenges for the dispersal of their microbial and faunal communities. Our study focused on the temporal dynamics and spatial distributions of sunken wood bacterial communities, which were deployed in the vicinity of different cold seeps in the Eastern Mediterranean and the Norwegian deep-seas. By combining fingerprinting of bacterial communities by ARISA and 454 sequencing with in situ and ex situ biogeochemical measurements, we show that sunken wood logs have a locally confined long-term impact (> 3y) on the sediment geochemistry and community structure. We confirm previous hypotheses of different successional stages in wood degradation including a sulphophilic one, attracting chemosynthetic fauna from nearby seep systems. Wood experiments deployed at similar water depths (1100-1700 m), but in hydrographically different oceanic regions harbored different wood-boring bivalves, opportunistic faunal communities, and chemosynthetic species. Similarly, bacterial communities on sunken wood logs were more similar within one geographic region than between different seas. Diverse sulphate-reducing bacteria of the Deltaproteobacteria, the sulphide-oxidizing bacteria Sulfurovum as well as members of the Acidimicrobiia and Bacteroidia dominated the wood falls in the Eastern Mediterranean, while Alphaproteobacteria and Flavobacteriia colonized the Norwegian Sea wood logs. Fauna and bacterial wood-associated communities changed between 1 to 3 years of immersion, with sulphate-reducers and sulphide -oxidizers increasing in proportion, and putative cellulose degraders decreasing with time. Only 6% of all bacterial genera, comprising the core community, were found at any time on the Eastern Mediterranean sunken wooden logs. This study suggests that biogeography and succession play an important role for the composition of bacteria and fauna of wood-associated communities, and that wood can act as stepping-stones for seep biota.	2017	12	10.1371/journal.pone.0169906
Kumar, M; Brader, G; Sessitsch, A; Maki, A; van Elsas, JD; Nissinen, R	Plants Assemble Species Specific Bacterial Communities from Common Core Taxa in Three Arcto-Alpine Climate Zones	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Evidence for the pivotal role of plant-associated bacteria to plant health and productivity has accumulated rapidly in the last years. However, key questions related to what drives plant bacteriomes remain unanswered, among which is the impact of climate zones on plant-associated microbiota. This is particularly true for wild plants in arcto-alpine biomes. Here, we hypothesized that the bacterial communities associated with pioneer plants in these regions have major roles in plant health support, and this is reflected in the formation of climate and host plant specific endophytic communities. We thus compared the bacteriomes associated with the native perennial plants Oxyria digyna and Saxifraga oppositifolia in three arcto-alpine regions (alpine, low Arctic and high Arctic) with those in the corresponding bulk soils. As expected, the bulk soil bacterial communities in the three regions were significantly different. The relative abundances of Proteobacteria decreased progressively from the alpine to the high-arctic soils, whereas those of Actinobacteria increased. The candidate division AD3 and Acidobacteria abounded in the low Arctic soils. Furthermore, plant species and geographic region were the major determinants of the structures of the endophere communities. The plants in the alpine region had higher relative abundances of Proteobacteria, while plants from the low- and high-arctic regions were dominated by Firmicutes. A highly-conserved shared set of ubiquitous bacterial taxa (core bacteriome) was found to occur in the two plant species. Burkholderiales, Actinomycetales and Rhizobiales were the main taxa in this core, and they were also the main contributors to the differences in the endosphere bacterial community structures across compartments as well as regions. We postulate that the composition of this core is driven by selection by the two plants.	2017	8	10.3389/fmicb.2017.00012
Drumonde-Neves, J; Franco-Duarte, R; Lima, T; Schuller, D; Pais, C	Association between Grape Yeast Communities and the Vineyard Ecosystems	PLOS ONE	The grape yeast biota from several wine-producing areas, with distinct soil types and grapevine training systems, was assessed on five islands of Azores Archipelago, and differences in yeast communities composition associated with the geographic origin of the grapes were explored. Fifty-seven grape samples belonging to the Vitis vinifera grapevine cultivars Verdelho dos Acores (Verdelho), Arinto da Terceira (Arinto) and Terrantez do Pico (Terrantez) were collected in two consecutive years and 40 spontaneous fermentations were achieved. A total of 1710 yeast isolates were obtained from freshly crushed grapes and 1200 from final stage of fermentations. Twenty-eight species were identified, Hanseniaspura uvarum, Pichia terricola and Metschnikowia pulcherrima being the three most representative species isolated. Candida carpophila was encountered for the first time as an inhabitant of grape or wine-associated environments. In both sampling years, a higher proportion of H. uvarum in fresh grapes from Verdelho cultivar was observed, in comparison with Arinto cultivar. Qualitatively significant differences were found among yeast communities from several locations on five islands of the Archipelago, particularly in locations with distinctive agro-ecological compositions. Our results are in agreement with the statement that grape-associated microbial biogeography is non-randomly associated with interactions of climate, soil, cultivar, and vine training systems in vineyard ecosystems. Our observations strongly support a possible linkage between grape yeast and wine typicality, reinforcing the statement that different viti-cultural terroirs harbor distinctive yeast biota, in particular in vineyards with very distinctive environmental conditions.	2017	12	10.1371/journal.pone.0169883
Ise, K; Sasaki, Y; Amano, Y; Iwatsuki, T; Nanjo, I; Asano, T; Yoshikawa, H	The Succession of Bacterial Community Structure in Groundwater from a 250-m Gallery in the Horonobe Underground Research Laboratory	GEOMICROBIOLOGY JOURNAL	We investigated the change in bacterial community structure after drilling boreholes, 09-V250-M02 and 09-V250-M03, in the 250-m deep research gallery of the Horonobe Underground Research Laboratory. In the 09-V250-M02 borehole, E-Proteobacteria were predominantly detected in the clone library analyses of the groundwater samples conducted immediately after drilling. All the E-Proteobacteria clones were closely related to Arcobacter spp., which are known to be sulfide-oxidizing chemoautotrophic bacteria. After 4years, the microbial structure drastically changed, and most detected operational taxonomic units were uncultured species such as candidate division OP9 and Chloroflexi relatives, which are frequently detected in deep sea sediments. The results indicated that the microbial community structure was drastically affected by borehole drilling and was concomitant with oxidation perturbation. However, these disturbed microbial communities changed within a few years to a microbial community composed of uncultivated species such as OP9 and Chloroflexi.	2017	34	10.1080/01490451.2016.1152329
Amin, P; Hanafi, NA; BasitahTaif; Legino, R	Art and Science: The Conceptual Idea of Self-Portrait Through Microbiological Practice	ADVANCED SCIENCE LETTERS	The concept of self-portrait is a process of understanding and investigating self. The conceptual idea can implement any kinds of forms and styles as the means of art production. Conceptual art itself is the representation of idea and concept rather than the aesthetic elements of the subject matter. Conceptual art could be readymade, intervention, documentation, and words or could be the combination of all. Biological art is another recent genre which manipulate and involving a biological processes and living organisms. This research aim is to explore the conceptual idea of understanding self-portrait through the engagement of microbiology as one of the evidence data. The microbiological practice takes part as a process of establishing the concept of self-portrait through the usage of researchers own bacteria. Bacteria are a form of living organisms which inhabit broad habitats but is unexceptionally inhabit human. The bacterial cells outnumbered human cells in every individual. The bacteria could be the essence of human identity just like how DNA is. This study focused on the relationship and connection established by three sets of data qualitatively which involves the bacteria growth in term of their morphologies, photography and diary which are documented for 28 days. The bacteria data analysis is linked to the researchers biological traits (sex, age, geographical area) and also other external factors which are the daily activities and any elements that familiar with the researcher lifestyle. The relationship and connection between the visual analysis of bacteria, photographs of researchers belongings in daily life, and text documents of diary is the conceptual idea of self-portrait that the researcher want to express and grasp through the production of final artwork. This research is manipulating science which is microbiology process in implementing the idea of self-portrait in such conceptual art way. It is hope that this study can contribute to the exploration of science through the art perspectives and scopes in Malaysia.	2017	23	10.1166/asl.2017.7238
de Rezende, JR; Hubert, CRJ; Roy, H; Kjeldsen, KU; Jorgensen, BB	Estimating the Abundance of Endospores of Sulfate-Reducing Bacteria in Environmental Samples by Inducing Germination and Exponential Growth	GEOMICROBIOLOGY JOURNAL	It is a challenge to quantitatively distinguish active from dormant microbial populations in environmental samples. Here we present an approach for estimating the abundance of dormant sulfate-reducing bacteria (SRB), present as viable endospores in environmental samples. This is achieved by inducing endospores to germinate and grow exponentially. We demonstrate this approach for thermophilic SRB in temperate sediment from Aarhus Bay, Denmark. The approach is based on measuring bulk sulfate reduction rates (SRRs) in pasteurized sediment and calculating associated cell-specific SRRs based on average values for SRB growth yield and cell size known from exponentially growing pure cultures. The method presented is a faster bioassay than most probable number enumerations and has the potential to distinguish between slow- and fast-growing SRB populations in the same sample. This bioassay is attractive given the challenges posed by endospores with respect to cell permeabilization and lysis, which are prerequisite in quantitative microscopy- and nucleic acid extraction-based strategies. These molecular approaches additionally rely on designing target-appropriate oligonucleotide probes, whereas the method presented here considers the trait of interest more broadly. This strategy thus presents a useful complement to other methods in ecological investigations of microbial biogeography and for specific industrial applications such as reservoir souring and corrosion risk assessments in the oil and gas sector.	2017	34	10.1080/01490451.2016.1190805
Murakami, T; Segawa, T; Dial, R; Takeuchi, N; Kohshima, S; Hongoh, Y	Bacterial Microbiota Associated with the Glacier Ice Worm Is Dominated by Both Worm-Specific and Glacier-Derived Facultative Lineages	MICROBES AND ENVIRONMENTS	The community structure of bacteria associated with the glacier ice worm Mesenchytraeus solifugus was analyzed by amplicon sequencing of 16S rRNA genes and their transcripts. Ice worms were collected from two distinct glaciers in Alaska, Harding Icefield and Byron Glacier, and glacier surfaces were also sampled for comparison. Marked differences were observed in bacterial community structures between the ice worm and glacier surface samples. Several bacterial phylotypes were detected almost exclusively in the ice worms, and these bacteria were phylogenetically affiliated with either animal-associated lineages or, interestingly, clades mostly consisting of glacier-indigenous species. The former included bacteria that belong to Mollicutes, Chlamydiae, Rickettsiales, and Lachnospiraceae, while the latter included Arcicella and Herminiimonas phylotypes. Among these bacteria enriched in ice worm samples, Mollicutes, Arcicella, and Herminiimonas phylotypes were abundantly and consistently detected in the ice worm samples; these phylotypes constituted the core microbiota associated with the ice worm. A fluorescence in situ hybridization analysis showed that Arcicella cells specifically colonized the epidermis of the ice worms. Other bacterial phylotypes detected in the ice worm samples were also abundantly recovered from the respective habitat glaciers; these bacteria may be food for ice worms to digest or temporary residents. Nevertheless, some were overrepresented in the ice worm RNA samples; they may also function as facultative gut bacteria. Our results indicate that the community structure of bacteria associated with ice worms is distinct from that in the associated glacier and includes worm-specific and facultative, glacier-indigenous lineages.	2017	32	10.1264/jsme2.ME16158
Nguyen, TT; Robertsen, EM; Landfald, B	Viral assemblage variation in an Arctic shelf seafloor	AQUATIC MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Spatial differences in microbial communities are observable even in habitats with moderate environmental variation, such as within the pelagic zone or seafloor of geographically finite regions of the oceans. Here we explore whether biogeographical variations are also manifested at this level in the structure of viral assemblages by comparing DNA viromes from the Barents Sea upper seafloor, collected at 5 geographically separated locations. Of the open reading frames, 27 to 44% showed significant similarity to genes of viral genomes in the Refseq database. The majority of the identified open reading frames, i.e. 86 to 95%, were affiliated with sequences of single-stranded DNA (ssDNA) viruses, but the ssDNA virus genetic material was likely strongly overrepresented due to the use of phi29 DNA polymerase for amplifying viral DNA. The majority of ssDNA virus sequences originated from the Microviridae family of phages and the eukaryotic Circular Rep-encoding ssDNA (CRESS-DNA) viruses. The sediment virus assemblages showed higher overall similarity to counterparts from deep-sea sediment of the Pacific Ocean than to, e.g., Arctic Ocean pelagic viromes, supporting the presence of common compositional features in sediment viral assemblages across continental- scale geographical separations. The Barents Sea viromes grouped biogeographically in accordance with the south-north environmental division of this Arctic sea by the oceanic polar front, thereby mirroring a corresponding 16S rRNA gene-based biogeographical division of the bacterial communities. However, compositional differences in the eukaryotic virus assemblages rather than the bacteriophages appeared to be the primary basis for this spatial separation.	2017	78	10.3354/ame01808
Evans, S; Martiny, JBH; Allison, SD	Effects of dispersal and selection on stochastic assembly in microbial communities	ISME JOURNAL	Stochastic processes can play an important role in microbial community assembly. Dispersal limitation is one process that can increase stochasticity and obscure relationships between environmental variables and microbial community composition, but the relationship between dispersal, selection and stochasticity has not been described in a comprehensive way. We examine how dispersal and its interactions with drift and selection alter the consistency with which microbial communities assemble using a realistic, individual-based model of microbial decomposers. Communities were assembled under different environmental conditions and dispersal rates in repeated simulations, and we examined the compositional difference among replicate communities colonizing the same type of leaf litter (within-group distance), as well as between-group deterministic selection. Dispersal rates below 25% turnover per year resulted in high within-group distance among communities and no significant environmental effects. As dispersal limitation was alleviated, both within- and between-group distance decreased, but despite this homogenization, deterministic environmental effects remained significant. In addition to direct effects of dispersal rate, stochasticity of community composition was influenced by an interaction between dispersal and selection strength. Specifically, communities experiencing stronger selection (less favorable litter chemistries) were more stochastic, possibly because lower biomass and richness intensified drift or priority effects. Overall, we show that dispersal rate can significantly alter patterns of community composition. Partitioning the effects of dispersal, selection and drift based on static patterns of microbial composition will be difficult, if not impossible. Experiments will be required to tease apart these complex interactions between assembly processes shaping microbial communities.	2017	11	10.1038/ismej.2016.96
Na, XF; Xu, TT; Li, M; Ma, F; Kardol, P	Bacterial diversity in the rhizosphere of two phylogenetically closely related plant species across environmental gradients	JOURNAL OF SOILS AND SEDIMENTS	Purpose Rhizosphere soil bacterial communities are crucial to plant growth, health, and stress resistance. In order to detect how bacterial communities associated with the rhizosphere of phylogenetically related plant species vary in terms of composition, function, and diversity, we investigated the rhizosphere bacterial community structure of two perennial shrub species, Caragana jubata and Caragana roborovskyi, under natural field conditions in northwest China and analyzed the influence of soil properties and environmental factors. Materials and methods Eighteen root samples, eight for C. jubata, and ten for C. roborovskyi, along with any adherent soil particles, were collected from multiple sites in northwest China. The rhizosphere soil was washed from the roots, and bacterial communities were analyzed using Illumina MiSeq sequencing of 16S rRNA gene amplicons. Then, alpha-diversity and beta-diversity were calculated using QIIME. Results and discussion Across species, Proteobacteria (29 %), Actinobacteria (15 %), Chloroflexi (10 %), Acidobacteria (10 %), Bacteroidetes (8 %), Firmicutes (8 %), Planctomycetes (7 %), Gemmatimonadetes (4 %), and Verrucomicrobia (3 %) were themost abundant phyla in the rhizosphere of C. jubata and C. roborovskyi. However, principal co-ordinates analysis indicated strong interspecific patterns of bacterial rhizosphere communities. Further, the richness of Proteobacteria, Acidobacteria, Bacteroidetes, Verrucomicrobia, Firmicutes, and Nitrospirae was significantly higher in the rhizosphere of C. jubata compared with C. roborovskyi, while the opposite was found for Actinobacteria and Cyanobacteria. However, the Shannon index showed no significant difference in alpha-diversity between C. jubata and C. roborovskyi. Distance-based redundancy analysis indicated that soil properties and environmental factors exerted strong influences on the structure of the rhizosphere bacterial community and explained 47 and 46 % of community variances between samples, respectively. Conclusions Our results showed strong interspecific clustering of the bacterial rhizosphere communities of C. roborovskyi and C. jubata. Altitude explained most of the variation in the composition of bacterial rhizosphere communities of C. roborovskyi and C. jubata, followed by soil pH, water content, organic matter content, total nitrogen content, and mean annual rainfall.	2017	17	10.1007/s11368-016-1486-2
Mo, HW; Liu, LL; Zhao, J	A New Magnetotactic Bacteria Optimization Algorithm Based on Moment Migration	IEEE-ACM TRANSACTIONS ON COMPUTATIONAL BIOLOGY AND BIOINFORMATICS	Magnetotactic bacteria is a kind of polyphyletic group of prokaryotes with the characteristics of magnetotaxis that make them orient and swim along geomagnetic field lines. Its distinct biology characteristics are useful to design new optimization technology. In this paper, a new bionic optimization algorithm named Magnetotactic Bacteria Moment Migration Algorithm (MBMMA) is proposed. In the proposed algorithm, the moments of a chain of magnetosomes are considered as solutions. The moments of relative good solutions can migrate each other to enhance the diversity of the MBMMA. It is compared with variants of PSO on standard functions problems. The experiment results show that the MBMMA is effective in solving optimization problems. It shows better or competitive performance compared with the variants of PSO on most of the tested functions in this paper.	2017	14	10.1109/TCBB.2015.2453949
Kozyaeva, VV; Grouzdev, DS; Dziuba, MV; Kolganova, TV; Kuznetsov, BB	Diversity of magnetotactic bacteria of the Moskva River	MICROBIOLOGY	Diversity of magnetotactic bacteria in the Moskva River at the Strogino area was studied using microscopy and phylogenetic analysis. Magnetotactic cocci were the predominant morphotype. Phylogenetic analysis of the 16S rRNA gene sequences revealed 13 OTUs of the orders Magnetococcales and Rhodospirillales, class Alphaproteobacteria. The shares of the relevant sequences were 90 and 10%, respectively. An axenic culture of magnetotactic spirilla was isolated from the studied community. According to the results of the 16S rRNA gene sequencing, the isolate was identified as a new Magnetospirillum species.	2017	86	10.1134/S0026261717010088
Hermans, SM; Buckley, HL; Case, BS; Curran-Cournane, F; Taylor, M; Lear, G	Bacteria as Emerging Indicators of Soil Condition	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Bacterial communities are important for the health and productivity of soil ecosystems and have great potential as novel indicators of environmental per-turbations. To assess how they are affected by anthropogenic activity and to determine their ability to provide alternative metrics of environmental health, we sought to define which soil variables bacteria respond to across multiple soil types and land uses. We determined, through 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing, the composition of bacterial communities in soil samples from 110 natural or human-impacted sites, located up to 300 km apart. Overall, soil bacterial communities varied more in response to changing soil environments than in response to changes in climate or increasing geographic distance. We identified strong correlations between the relative abundances of members of Pirellulaceae and soil pH, members of Gaiellaceae and carbon-to-nitrogen ratios, members of Bradyrhizobium and the levels of Olsen P (a measure of plant available phosphorus), and members of Chitinophagaceae and aluminum concentrations. These relationships between specific soil attributes and individual soil taxa not only highlight ecological characteristics of these organisms but also demonstrate the ability of key bacterial taxonomic groups to reflect the impact of specific anthropogenic activities, even in comparisons of samples across large geographic areas and diverse soil types. Overall, we provide strong evidence that there is scope to use relative taxon abundances as biological indicators of soil condition. IMPORTANCE The impact of land use change and management on soil microbial community composition remains poorly understood. Therefore, we explored the relationship between a wide range of soil factors and soil bacterial community composition. We included variables related to anthropogenic activity and collected samples across a large spatial scale to interrogate the complex relationships between various bacterial community attributes and soil condition. We provide evidence of strong relationships between individual taxa and specific soil attributes even across large spatial scales and soil and land use types. Collectively, we were able to demonstrate the largely untapped potential of microorganisms to indicate the condition of soil and thereby influence the way that we monitor the effects of anthropogenic activity on soil ecosystems into the future.	2017	83	10.1128/AEM.02826-16
Ardley, J	Legumes of the Thar desert and their nitrogen fixing Ensifer symbionts	PLANT AND SOIL	Background Nodulated legumes form a large component of the flora of desert regions, but comparatively few studies have characterised their symbiotic interactions, or their rhizobial microsymbionts. The Thar desert is a sub-tropical desert with infertile, alkaline soils in the northwestern part of the Indian subcontinent, which is home to a large number of legumes that provide food and fuel, or are of medicinal importance to the local people. In the latest in a series of studies on the nodulated legumes of the Thar desert and their associated rhizobia, Sankhla et al. (2016), this issue, have characterised strains of Ensifer rhizobia isolated from nodules of the native mimosoid legume shrub Vachellia (Acacia) jacquemontii. Scope These studies suggest that Ensifer rhizobia are the dominant microsymbionts of legumes native to the Thar desert and are particularly well-adapted to the arid conditions and alkaline soils found there. The Ensifer strains that nodulate V. jacquemontii may constitute a novel species, based on 16S rRNA and Multi Locus Sequence Analysis. Symbiotic adaptation of these rhizobia to local host legumes has involved horizontal gene transfer of symbiosis genes. Conclusions These findings provide further insights into the evolution of legume-rhizobia symbioses and how plants and rhizobia are adapted to and can survive in stressful conditions.	2017	410	10.1007/s11104-016-3125-5
Ping, YA; Han, DX; Wang, N; Hu, YB; Mu, LQ; Feng, FJ	Vertical zonation of soil fungal community structure in a Korean pine forest on Changbai Mountain, China	WORLD JOURNAL OF MICROBIOLOGY & BIOTECHNOLOGY	Changbai Mountain, with intact montane vertical vegetation belts, is located at a sensitive area of global climate change and a central distribution area of Korean pine forest. Broad-leaved Korean pine mixed forest (Pinus koraiensis as an edificator) is the most representative zonal climax vegetation in the humid region of northeastern China; their vertical zonation is the most intact and representative on Changbai Mountain. In this study, we analyzed the composition and diversity of soil fungal communities in the Korean pine forest on Changbai Mountain at elevations ranging from 699 to 1177 m using Illumina High-throughput sequencing. We obtained a total 186,663 optimized sequences, with an average length of 268.81 bp. We found soil fungal diversity index was decreased with increasing elevation from 699 to 937 m and began to rise after reaching 1044 m; the richness and evenness indices were decreased with an increase in elevation. Soil fungal compositions at the phylum, class and genus levels varied significantly at different elevations, but with the same dominant fungi. Beta-diversity analysis indicated that the similarity of fungal communities decreased with an increased vertical distance between the sample plots, showing a distance-decay relationship. Variation partition analysis showed that geographic distance (mainly elevation gradient) only explained 20.53 % of the total variation of fungal community structure, while soil physicochemical factors explained 69.78 %.	2017	33	10.1007/s11274-016-2133-1
Lengger, SK; Fromont, J; Grice, K	Tapping the archives: the sterol composition of marine sponge species, as determined non-invasively from museum-preserved specimens, reveals biogeographical features	GEOBIOLOGY	Over 8600 species are currently recorded in the phylum Porifera (sponges). They produce a large diversity of biochemical compounds including sterols, with more than 250 different sterols identified. Some of these sterols are of great interest, due to their use for fingerprinting in ecological and biomarker (molecular fossil) studies. As a large number of identified extant species from biodiversity surveys are housed in museum collections, preserved in ethanol, these present a potentially rich source of identified specimens for comparative lipid analyses. Here, we show that, in at least one species, sterol distributions obtained from the ethanol used to preserve specimens of sponges were representative, and comparable to the sterol distribution obtained from wet-frozen and from freeze-dried tissue from the same species. We employed both GC-MS and two-dimensional gas chromatography-time-of-flight mass spectrometry (GCxGC-TOFMS), with an improved signal-to-noise ratio for even minor constituents. Analysis of two additional specimens of the same species, but of different provenance, resulted in detection of marked differences in sterol composition, which could be attributed to variations in geography, environmental conditions, microbial communities, diet or cryptic speciation. The possibility of using ethanol from identified, preserved museum sponges could drastically increase the number of available samples. This could enable the study of their sterol complements, and the detailed investigation of differences due to geographical and oceanographic, phylogenetic, and other factors in unprecedented detail.	2017	15	10.1111/gbi.12206
Lindh, MV; Sjostedt, J; Casini, M; Andersson, A; Legrand, C; Pinhassi, J	Local Environmental Conditions Shape Generalist But Not Specialist Components of Microbial Metacommunities in the Baltic Sea	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Marine microbes exhibit biogeographical patterns linked with fluxes of matter and energy. Yet, knowledge of the mechanisms shaping bacterioplankton community assembly across temporal scales remains poor. We examined bacterioplankton 16S rRNA gene fragments obtained from Baltic Sea transects to determine phylogenetic relatedness and assembly processes coupled with niche breadth. Communities were phylogenetically more related over time than expected by chance, albeit with considerable temporal variation. Hence, habitat filtering, i.e., local environmental conditions, rather than competition structured bacterioplankton communities in summer but not in spring or autumn. Species sorting (SS) was the dominant assembly process, but temporal and taxonomical variation in mechanisms was observed. For May communities, Cyanobacteria, Actinobacteria, Alpha- and Betaproteobacteria exhibited SS while Bacteroidetes and Verrucomicrobia were assembled by SS and mass effect. Concomitantly, Gammaproteobacteria were assembled by the neutral model and patch dynamics. Temporal variation in habitat filtering and dispersal highlights the impact of seasonally driven reorganization of microbial communities. Typically abundant Baltic Sea populations such as the NS3a marine group (Bacteroidetes) and the SAR86 and SAR11 clade had the highest niche breadth. The verrucomicrobial Spartobacteria population also exhibited high niche breadth. Surprisingly, variation in bacterioplankton community composition was regulated by environmental factors for generalist taxa but not specialists. Our results suggest that generalists such as NS3a, SAR86, and SAR11 are reorganized to a greater extent by changes in the environment compared to specialists and contribute more strongly to determining overall biogeographical patterns of marine bacterial communities.	2016	7	10.3389/fmicb.2016.02078
Willenz, P; Ereskovsky, AV; Lavrov, DV	Integrative taxonomic re-description of Halisarca magellanica and description of a new species of Halisarca (Porifera, Demospongiae) from Chilean Patagonia	ZOOTAXA	A series of recent expeditions in fjords and canals of Southern Chilean Patagonia allowed the re-collection of Halisarca magellanica Topsent, 1901 and the discovery of a new species, Halisarca desqueyrouxae sp. nov. The material studied was collected at depths ranging from 3 to 30 m at latitudes comprised between 42 degrees and 49 degrees S. Both species share the same habitat and show a morphological plasticity, but differ in their colour. Halisarca magellanica is bright pink to whitish with three morphs whereas H. desqueyrouxae sp. nov. is light brown to beige with two morphs. An extensive investigation in TEM and SEM reveals several differences among cell types with inclusions between both species. Three distinct spherulous cells occur. Type 1 is shared by both species, Type 2 is occasional in H. magellanica but absent from H. desqueyrouxae sp. nov. Type 3 is rare in H. magellanica and occurs abundantly in half of the specimens of H. desqueyrouxae sp. nov. Granular cells are shared by both species but do not occur in all specimens. Microgranular cells are characteristic of H. magellanica. Both species also clearly differ by their endobiotic bacteria. Phylogenetic analysis of cox1 sequences places H. magellanica as a sister group to all other previously published Halisarca species sequences (9.1-9.7% difference) except H. harmelini, while H. desqueyrouxae sp. nov. is placed as a sister group to H. dujardini (2.3% difference).	2016	4208	10.11646/zootaxa.4208.6.1
Sinclair, L; Ijaz, UZ; Jensen, LJ; Coolen, MJL; Gubry-Rangin, C; Chronakova, A; Oulas, A; Pavloudi, C; Schnetzer, J; Weimann, A; Ijaz, A; Eiler, A; Quince, C; Pafilis, E	Seqenv: linking sequences to environments through text mining	PEERJ	Understanding the distribution of taxa and associated traits across different environments is one of the central questions in microbial ecology. High-throughput sequencing (HTS) studies are presently generating huge volumes of data to address this biogeographical topic. However, these studies are often focused on specific environment types or processes leading to the production of individual, unconnected datasets. The large amounts of legacy sequence data with associated metadata that exist can be harnessed to better place the genetic information found in these surveys into a wider environmental context. Here we introduce a software program, seqenv, to carry out precisely such a task. It automatically performs similarity searches of short sequences against the nt nucleotide database provided by NCBI and, out of every hit, extracts if it is available the textual metadata field. After collecting all the isolation sources from all the search results, we run a text mining algorithm to identify and parse words that are associated with the Environmental Ontology (EnvO) controlled vocabulary. This, n turn, enables us to determine both in which environments individual sequences or taxa have previously been observed and, by weighted summation of those results, to summarize complete samples. We present two demonstrative applications of seqenv to a survey of ammonia oxidizing archaea as well as to a plankton paleome dataset from the Black Sea. These demonstrate the ability of the tool to reveal novel patterns in HTS and its utility in the fields of environmental source tracking, paleontology, and s of microbial biogeography.	2016	4	10.7717/peerj.2690
Kudelka, MR; Hinrichs, BH; Darby, T; Moreno, CS; Nishio, H; Cutler, CE; Wang, JM; Wu, HX; Zeng, JW; Wang, YC; Ju, TZ; Stowell, SR; Nusrat, A; Jones, RM; Neish, AS; Cummings, RD	Cosmc is an X-linked inflammatory bowel disease risk gene that spatially regulates gut microbiota and contributes to sex-specific risk	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) results from aberrant immune stimulation against a dysbiotic mucosal but relatively preserved luminal microbiota and preferentially affects males in early onset disease. However, factors contributing to sex-specific risk and the pattern of dysbiosis are largely unexplored. Core 1 beta 3GalT-specific molecular chaperone (Cosmc), which encodes an X-linked chaperone important for glycocalyx formation, was recently identified as an IBD risk factor by genome-wide association study. We deleted Cosmc in mouse intestinal epithelial cells (IECs) and found marked reduction of microbiota diversity in progression from the proximal to the distal gut mucosa, but not in the overlying lumen, as seen in IBD. This loss of diversity coincided with local emergence of a proinflammatory pathobiont and distal gut restricted pathology. Mechanistically, we found that Cosmc regulates host genes, bacterial ligands, and nutrient availability to control microbiota biogeography. Loss of one Cosmc allele in males (IEC-Cosmc-(/y)) resulted in a compromised mucus layer, spontaneous microbe-dependent inflammation, and enhanced experimental colitis; however, females with loss of one allele and mosaic deletion of Cosmc in 50% of crypts (IEC-Cosmc(+/-)) were protected from spontaneous inflammation and partially protected from experimental colitis, likely due to lateral migration of normal mucin glycocalyx from WT cells over KO crypts. These studies functionally validate Cosmc as an IBD risk factor and implicate it in regulating the spatial pattern of dysbiosis and sex bias in IBD.	2016	113	10.1073/pnas.1612158114
Yun, Y; Wang, HM; Man, BY; Xiang, X; Zhou, JP; Qiu, X; Duan, Y; Engel, AS	The Relationship between pH and Bacterial Communities in a Single Karst Ecosystem and Its Implication for Soil Acidification	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Enhanced monsoon duration and soil acidification from acid rain are expected to impact the distribution of microbial communities in surface and subsurface environments, although these impacts are poorly understood for most systems. In central China, soluble carbonate bedrock forms extensive karst landscapes. Current predictions are that the amount of monsoonal precipitation and acid rainfall in central China will increase, which is expected to lead to changes in the pH balance of karst ecosystems. To evaluate the role of pH, total organic carbon, and other geochemical parameters (e.g., Ca2+, Mg2+, NH4+, NOR, SO42-) in shaping bacterial communities within a single karst system in central China, samples were collected from the thin surface soils overlying Heshang Gave, cave sediments, and weathered cave passage rocks from the entrance, twilight, and dark zones, as well as from epikarstic drip waters inside the cave. Illumina sequencing of 16S rRNA genes and multivariate statistical analyses revealed that each tested community was distinct and the community variability was significantly correlated with pH, total organic carbon, and potassium concentrations. Specifically, surface soils were dominated by Acidobacteria. Verrucomicrobia and Planctomycetes, and diversity significantly decreased with acidic pH values. Nitrospirae, Gemmatimonadetes, Firmicutes, and Chloroflexi were unique to cave sediments, while Actinobacteria and Proteobacteria dominated weathered rocks and drip waters, respectively. The results reveal important implications regarding the effects of acidification on bacterial communities in karst areas, and on the control of pH in shaping bacterial communities throughout a karst system. Increased water flux into and through karst habitats due to monsoonal precipitation may result in deeper penetration of acidic solutions into karst and shift the bacterial communities inside the cave in the future.	2016	7	10.3389/fmicb.2016.01955
Liang, X; Bultman, SJ	Ticking in Place for the Microbiome to Message Out	Cell Metabolism	In a recent issue of Cell, Thaiss et al. (2016) report that gut microbiota exhibit diurnal rhythmicity in biogeographical localization and metabolomics during the 24 hr light-dark cycle. This oscillation, together with the host circadian clock, co-regulates the colonic and hepatic epigenome and transcriptome.	2016	24	10.1016/j.cmet.2016.11.015
URen, JM; Arnold, AE	Diversity, taxonomic composition, and functional aspects of fungal communities in living, senesced, and fallen leaves at five sites across North America	PEERJ	Background. Fungal endophytes inhabit symptomless, living tissues of all major plant lineages to form one of earths most prevalent groups of symbionts. Many reproduce from senesced and/or decomposing leaves and can produce extracellular leaf degrading enzymes, blurring the line between symbiotrophy and saprotrophy. To better understand the endophyte saprotroph continuum we compared fungal communities and functional traits of focal strains isolated from living leaves to those isolated from leaves after senescence and decomposition, with a focus on foliage of woody plants in five biogeographic provinces ranging from tundra to subtropical scrub forest. Methods. We cultured fungi from the interior of surface-sterilized leaves that were living at the time. of sampling (i.e., dophytes), leaves that were dead and were retained in plant canopies (dead leaf fungi,eDn LF), and fallen. leaves (leaf litter.fungi,LLF) from 3-4 species of woody plants in each of five sites in. North America. Our sampling encompassed 18 plant species. representing. two families of Pinophyta.and five families of Angiospermae. Diversity and composition of fungal communities within and among leaf life stages, hosts, and sites were compared using ITS-partial L SU rDNA data. We evaluated substrate use and enzyme activity by a subset of fungi isolatedonlyfrom living tissues vs. fungi isolated only from non-living leaves. Results Across the diverse biomes and plant taxa surveyed here, culturable fungi living leays were isolated less frequently and were less diverse than those isolated from non-living leaves. Fungal communities in living leaves also differed detectably in composition from communities in dead leaves and leaf litter within focal sites and host taxa, regardless of differential weighting of rare and abundant fungi. All focal isolates grew on cellulose, lignin, and pectin as sole carbon sources, but none displayed igninolytic or pectinolytic activity in vitro. Cellulolytic activity differed among fungal classes. Within Dothideomycetes, activity differed significantly between fungi from living vs. non-living leaves, but such differences were not observed in Sordariomycetes. Discussion. Although some fungi with endophytic life stages clearly persist for periods of time in leaves after senescence and incorporation into leaf litter, our sampling across diverse biomes and host lineages detected consistent differences between fungal assemblages in living vs. non-living leaves, reflecting incursion by fungi from the leaf exterior after leaf death and as leaves begin to decompose. However, fungi found only in living leaves do not differ consistently in cellulolytic activity from those fungi detected thus far only in dead leaves. Future analyses should consider Basidiornycota in addition to the Ascomycota fungi evaluated here, and should explore more dimensions of functional traits and persistence to further define the endophytism-to-saprotrophy continuum.	2016	4	10.7717/peerj.2768
Shi, Y; Adams, JM; Ni, YY; Yang, T; Jing, X; Chen, LT; He, JS; Chu, HY	The biogeography of soil archaeal communities on the eastern Tibetan Plateau	SCIENTIFIC REPORTS	The biogeographical distribution of soil bacterial communities has been widely investigated. However, there has been little study of the biogeography of soil archaeal communities on a regional scale. Here, using high-throughput sequencing, we characterized the archaeal communities of 94 soil samples across the eastern Tibetan Plateau. Thaumarchaeota was the predominant archael phylum in all the soils, and Halobacteria was dominant only in dry soils. Archaeal community composition was significantly correlated with soil moisture content and C: N ratio, and archaeal phylotype richness was negatively correlated with soil moisture content (r = -0.47, P < 0.01). Spatial distance, a potential measure of the legacy effect of evolutionary and dispersal factors, was less important than measured environmental factors in determining the broad scale archaeal community pattern. These results indicate that soil moisture and C: N ratio are the key factors structuring soil archaeal communities on the eastern Tibetan Plateau. Our findings suggest that archaeal communities have adjusted their distributions rapidly enough to reach range equilibrium in relation to past environmental changes e.g. in water availability and soil nutrient status. This responsiveness may allow better prediction of future responses of soil archaea to environmental change in these sensitive ecosystems.	2016	6	10.1038/srep38893
Grattepanche, JD; McManus, GB; Katz, LA	Patchiness of Ciliate Communities Sampled at Varying Spatial Scales along the New England Shelf	PLOS ONE	Although protists (microbial eukaryotes) provide an important link between bacteria and Metazoa in food webs, we do not yet have a clear understanding of the spatial scales on which protist diversity varies. Here, we use a combination of DNA fingerprinting (denaturant gradient gel electrophoresis or DGGE) and high-throughput sequencing (HTS) to assess the ciliate community in the class Spirotrichea at varying scales of 1-3 km sampled in three locations separated by at least 25 km-offshore, midshelf and inshore-along the New England shelf. Analyses of both abundant community (DGGE) and the total community (HTS) members reveal that: 1) ciliate communities are patchily distributed inshore (i.e. the middle station of a transect is distinct from its two neighboring stations), whereas communities are more homogeneous among samples within the midshelf and offshore stations; 2) a ciliate closely related to Pelagostrobilidium paraepacrum blooms inshore and; 3) environmental factors may differentially impact the distributions of individual ciliates (i.e. OTUs) rather than the community as a whole as OTUs tend to show distinct biogeographies (e.g. some OTUs are restricted to the offshore locations, some to the surface, etc.). Together, these data show the complexity underlying the spatial distributions of marine protists, and suggest that biogeography may be a property of ciliate species rather than communities.	2016	11	10.1371/journal.pone.0167659
Beaton, ED; Stevenson, BS; King-Sharp, KJ; Stamps, BW; Nunn, HS; Stuart, M	Local and Regional Diversity Reveals Dispersal Limitation and Drift as Drivers for Groundwater Bacterial Communities from a Fractured Granite Formation	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Microorganisms found in terrestrial subsurface environments make up a large proportion of the Earths biomass. Biogeochemical cycles catalyzed by subsurface microbes have the potential to influence the speciation and transport of radionuclides managed in geological repositories. To gain insight on factors that constrain microbial processes within a formation with restricted groundwater flow we performed a meta-community analysis on groundwater collected from multiple discrete fractures underlying the Chalk River Laboratories site (located in Ontario, Canada). Bacterial taxa were numerically dominant in the groundwater. Although these were mainly uncultured, the closest cultivated representatives were from the phenotypically diverse Betaproteobacteria, Deltaproteobacteria, Bacteroidetes, Actinobacteria, Nitrospirae, and Firmicutes. Hundreds of taxa were identified but only a few were found in abundance (>1%) across all assemblages. The remainder of the taxa were low abundance. Within an ecological framework of selection, dispersal and drift, the local and regional diversity revealed fewer taxa within each assemblage relative to the meta community, but the taxa that were present were more related than predicted by chance. The combination of dispersion at one phylogenetic depth and clustering at another phylogenetic depth suggest both niche (dispersion) and filtering (clustering) as drivers of local assembly. Distance decay of similarity reveals apparent biogeography of 1.5 km. Beta diversity revealed greater influence of selection at shallow sampling locations while the influences of dispersal limitation and randomness were greater at deeper sampling locations. Although selection has shaped each assemblage, the spatial scale of groundwater sampling favored detection of neutral processes over selective processes. Dispersal limitation between assemblages combined with local selection means the meta-community is subject to drift, and therefore, likely reflects the differential historical events that have influenced the current bacterial composition. Categorizing the study site into smaller regions of interest of more closely spaced fractures, or of potentially hydraulically connected fractures, might improve the resolution of an analysis to reveal environmental influences that have shaped these bacterial communities.	2016	7	10.3389/fmicb.2016.01933
Wang, K; Ye, XS; Zhang, HJ; Chen, HP; Zhang, DM; Liu, L	Regional variations in the diversity and predicted metabolic potential of benthic prokaryotes in coastal northern Zhejiang, East China Sea	Scientific Reports	Knowledge about the drivers of benthic prokaryotic diversity and metabolic potential in interconnected coastal sediments at regional scales is limited. We collected surface sediments across six zones covering similar to 200 km in coastal northern Zhejiang, East China Sea and combined 16 S rRNA gene sequencing, community-level metabolic prediction, and sediment physicochemical measurements to investigate variations in prokaryotic diversity and metabolic gene composition with geographic distance and under local environmental conditions. Geographic distance was the most influential factor in prokaryotic beta-diversity compared with major environmental drivers, including temperature, sediment texture, acid-volatile sulfide, and water depth, but a large unexplained variation in community composition suggested the potential effects of unmeasured abiotic/biotic factors and stochastic processes. Moreover, prokaryotic assemblages showed a biogeographic provincialism across the zones. The predicted metabolic gene composition similarly shifted as taxonomic composition did. Acid-volatile sulfide was strongly correlated with variation in metabolic gene composition. The enrichments in the relative abundance of sulfate-reducing bacteria and genes relevant with dissimilatory sulfate reduction were observed and predicted, respectively, in the Yushan area. These results provide insights into the relative importance of geographic distance and environmental condition in driving benthic prokaryotic diversity in coastal areas and predict specific biogeochemically-relevant genes for future studies.	2016	6	10.1038/srep38709
Wang, XZ; Liu, JJ; Yu, ZH; Jin, J; Liu, XB; Wang, GH	Novel groups and unique distribution of phage phoH genes in paddy waters in northeast China	SCIENTIFIC REPORTS	Although bacteriophages are ubiquitous in various environments, their genetic diversity is primarily investigated in pelagic marine environments. Corresponding studies in terrestrial environments are few. In this study, we conducted the first survey of phage diversity in the paddy ecosystem by targeting a new viral biomarker gene, phoH. A total of 424 phoH sequences were obtained from four paddy waters generated from a pot experiment with different soils collected from open paddy fields in northeast China. The majority of phoH sequences in paddy waters were novel, with the highest identity of <= 70% with known phoH sequences. Four unique groups (Group alpha, Group beta, Group gamma and Group delta) and seven new subgroups (Group 2b, Group 3d, Group 3e, Group 6a, Group 6b, Group 6c and Group 6d) were formed exclusively with the clones from the paddy waters, suggesting novel phage phoH groups exist in the paddy ecosystem. Additionally, the distribution proportions of phoH clones in different groups varied among paddy water samples, suggesting the phage community in paddy fields is biogeographically distributed. Furthermore, non-metric multidimensional scaling analysis indicated that phage phoH assemblages in paddy waters were distinct from those in marine waters.	2016	6	10.1038/srep38428
Jones, DS; Schaperdoth, I; Macalady, JL	Biogeography of sulfur-oxidizing Acidithiobacillus populations in extremely acidic cave biofilms	ISME JOURNAL	Extremely acidic (pH 0-1.5) Acidithiobacillus-dominated biofilms known as snottites are found in sulfide-rich caves around the world. Given the extreme geochemistry and subsurface location of the biofilms, we hypothesized that snottite Acidithiobacillus populations would be genetically isolated. We therefore investigated biogeographic relationships among snottite Acidithiobacillus spp. separated by geographic distances ranging from meters to 1000s of kilometers. We determined genetic relationships among the populations using techniques with three levels of resolution: (i) 16S rRNA gene sequencing, (ii) 16S-23S intergenic transcribed spacer (ITS) region sequencing and (iii) multi-locus sequencing typing (MLST). We also used metagenomics to compare functional gene characteristics of select populations. Based on 16S rRNA genes, snottites in Italy and Mexico are dominated by different sulfur-oxidizing Acidithiobacillus spp. Based on ITS sequences, Acidithiobacillus thiooxidans strains from different cave systems in Italy are genetically distinct. Based on MLST of isolates from Italy, genetic distance is positively correlated with geographic distance both among and within caves. However, metagenomics revealed that At. thiooxidans populations from different cave systems in Italy have different sulfur oxidation pathways and potentially other significant differences in metabolic capabilities. In light of those genomic differences, we argue that the observed correlation between genetic and geographic distance among snottite Acidithiobacillus populations is partially explained by an evolutionary model in which separate cave systems were stochastically colonized by different ancestral surface populations, which then continued to diverge and adapt in situ.	2016	10	10.1038/ismej.2016.74
Luna, GM; Chiggiato, J; Quero, GM; Schroeder, K; Bongiorni, L; Kalenitchenko, D; Galand, PE	Dense water plumes modulate richness and productivity of deep sea microbes	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Growing evidence indicates that dense water formation and flow over the continental shelf is a globally relevant oceanographic process, potentially affecting microbial assemblages down to the deep ocean. However, the extent and consequences of this influence have yet to be investigated. Here it is shown that dense water propagation to the deep ocean increases the abundance of prokaryotic plankton, and stimulates carbon production and organic matter degradation rates. Dense waters spilling off the shelf modifies community composition of deep sea microbial assemblages, leading to the increased relevance of taxa likely originating from the sea surface and the seafloor. This phenomenon can be explained by a combination of factors that interplay during the dense waters propagation, such as the transport of surface microbes to the ocean floor (delivering in our site 0.1 megatons of C), the stimulation of microbial metabolism due to increased ventilation and nutrients availability, the sediment re-suspension, and the mixing with ambient waters along the path. Thus, these results highlight a hitherto unidentified role for dense currents flowing over continental shelves in influencing deep sea microbes. In light of climate projections, this process will affect significantly the microbial functioning and biogeochemical cycling of large sectors of the ocean interior.	2016	18	10.1111/1462-2920.13510
Yan, QY; Li, JJ; Yu, YH; Wang, JJ; He, ZL; Van Nostrand, JD; Kempher, ML; Wu, LY; Wang, YP; Liao, LJ; Li, XH; Wu, S; Ni, JJ; Wang, C; Zhou, JZ	Environmental filtering decreases with fish development for the assembly of gut microbiota	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Gut microbiota typically occupy habitats with definable limits/borders that are comparable to oceanic islands. The gut therefore can be regarded as an island for the assembly of microbial communities within the sea of surrounding environments. This study aims to reveal the ecological mechanisms that govern microbiota in the fish gut island ecosystem. Taxonomic compositions, phylogenetic diversity, and community turnover across host development were analyzed via the high-throughput sequencing of 16S rRNA gene amplicons. The results indicate that the Shannon diversity of gut microbiota in the three examined freshwater fish species all significantly decreased with host development, and the dominant bacterial taxa also changed significantly during host development. Null model and phylogenetic-based mean nearest taxon distance (MNTD) analyses suggest that host gut environmental filtering led to the assembly of microbial communities in the fish gut island. However, the phylogenetic clustering of local communities and deterministic processes that governed community turnover became less distinct as the fish developed. The observed mechanisms that shaped fish gut microbiota seemed to be mainly shaped by the gut environment and by some other selective changes accompanying the host development process. These findings greatly enhance our understanding of stage-specific community assembly patterns in the fish gut ecosystem.	2016	18	10.1111/1462-2920.13365
Choudoir, MJ; Doroghazi, JR; Buckley, DH	Latitude delineates patterns of biogeography in terrestrial Streptomyces	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	The biogeography of Streptomyces was examined at regional spatial scales to identify factors that govern patterns of microbial diversity. Streptomyces are spore forming filamentous bacteria which are widespread in soil. Streptomyces strains were isolated from perennial grass habitats sampled across a spatial scale of more than 6000 km. Previous analysis of this geographically explicit culture collection provided evidence for a latitudinal diversity gradient in Streptomyces species. Here the hypothesis that this latitudinal diversity gradient is a result of evolutionary dynamics associated with historical demographic processes was evaluated. Historical demographic phenomena have genetic consequences that can be evaluated through analysis of population genetics. Population genetic approaches were applied to analyze population structure in six of the most numerically abundant and geographically widespread Streptomyces phylogroups from our culture collection. Streptomyces population structure varied at regional spatial scales, and allelic diversity correlated with geographic distance. In addition, allelic diversity and gene flow are partitioned by latitude. Finally, it was found that nucleotide diversity within phylogroups was negatively correlated with latitude. These results indicate that phylogroup diversification is constrained by dispersal limitation at regional spatial scales, and they are consistent with the hypothesis that historical demographic processes have influenced the contemporary biogeography of Streptomyces.	2016	18	10.1111/1462-2920.13420
Zeng, J; Zhao, DY; Li, HB; Huang, R; Wang, JJ; Wu, QLL	A monotonically declining elevational pattern of bacterial diversity in freshwater lake sediments	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	The distribution patterns of bacterial communities along elevational gradients remain unexplored in aquatic ecosystems. This study investigated the diversity and community composition of bacteria in the sediments of lakes along a mountainside elevational gradient from 525 to 4 490 m in western China. The bacterial alpha diversity (taxonomic richness and phylogenetic diversity) at different sediment depths decreased monotonically with the increasing elevation, and the beta diversity (dissimilarity between lakes) increased significantly with the increasing elevation distance. Both elevation and chemical variables including pH and carbon/nitrogen ratio were identified as major factors affecting the bacterial diversity. Especially, bacterial alpha/beta diversity was significantly related to both chemical and elevational gradients in the surface sediments, whereas elevation overwhelmed chemical factors in influencing the bacterial alpha/beta diversity in the subsurface sediments. Phylogenetic structure analysis demonstrated that environmental filtering was the most important process affecting the bacterial community assembly along the elevational gradient, and the strength of environmental filtering increased towards high elevations. In summary, we observed for the first time a monotonically decreasing elevational pattern in bacterial diversity of freshwater lake sediments, which is mainly driven by elevation associated environmental factors.	2016	18	10.1111/1462-2920.13526
Schiaffino, MR; Lara, E; Fernandez, LD; Balague, V; Singer, D; Seppey, CCW; Massana, R; Izaguirre, I	Microbial eukaryote communities exhibit robust biogeographical patterns along a gradient of Patagonian and Antarctic lakes	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Microbial eukaryotes play important roles in aquatic ecosystem functioning. Unravelling their distribution patterns and biogeography provides important baseline information to infer the underlying mechanisms that regulate the biodiversity and complexity of ecosystems. We studied the distribution patterns and factors driving diversity gradients in microeukaryote communities (total, abundant, uncommon and rare community composition) along a latitudinal gradient of lakes distributed from Argentinean Patagonia to Maritime Antarctica using both denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) and high-throughput sequencing (Illumina HiSeq). DGGE and abundant Illumina operational taxonomic units (OTUs) showed both decreasing richness with latitude and significant differences between Patagonian and Antarctic lakes communities. In contrast, total richness did not change significantly across the latitudinal gradient, although evenness and diversity indices were significantly higher in Patagonian lakes. Beta-diversity was characterized by a high species turnover, influenced by both environmental and geographical descriptors, although this pattern faded in the rare community. Our results suggest the co-existence of a core biosphere containing reduced number of abundant/dominant OTUs on which classical ecological rules apply, together with a much larger seedbank of rare OTUs driven by stochastic and reduced dispersal processes. These findings shed new light on the biogeographical patterns and forces structuring inland microeukaryote composition across broad spatial scales.	2016	18	10.1111/1462-2920.13566
Marziah, Z; Mahdzir, A; Musa, MN; Jaafar, A; Azhim, A; Hara, H	Abundance of sulfur-degrading bacteria in a benthic bacterial community of shallow sea sediment in the off-Terengganu coast of the South China Sea	MICROBIOLOGYOPEN	This study for the first time provides insight into the bacterial community in the benthic region of the Off-Terengganu Coastline, which is considered to be anthropogenically polluted due to heavy fishing vessel commotion. Subsurface bacteria were randomly collected from two locations at different depths and were examined using the 16S rDNA V3-V4 marker gene on the Illumina Miseq platform. In addition, the physiochemical parameters of the sediment were also measured. Surprisingly, the results show a high diversity of sulfur-oxidizing bacteria in the surveyed area, where Sulfurovum sp. was identified to predominate the overall bacterial community. The physiochemical parameters reveal insufficient evidence of hydrothermal vents in the surveyed area. However, there are traces of hydrocarbon pollutants such as gasoline, diesel, and mineral oil in this area. It is assumed that sediment accumulation in the lee of breakwater plays an important role in trapping the runoff from the nearby harbor, which includes oil spills. Based on the common knowledge, Sulvurofum sp. is a native bacterium that exists in deep hydrothermal vents and volcanic territories. Although the reason for the abundance of Sulfurovum sp. in the surveyed area is still unclear, there is a possibility that metabolic adaptation plays an important role in regulating hydrocarbon pollutants for survival. The work presented in this paper therefore has profound implications for future studies on Sulfurovum sp. versatility. However, future research is needed to strengthen the findings of this study and to provide a better evidence regarding the metabolic response of this bacterium toward hydrocarbon pollutants.	2016	5	10.1002/mbo3.380
Zoccarato, L; Pallavicini, A; Cerino, F; Umani, SF; Celussi, M	Water mass dynamics shape Ross Sea protist communities in mesopelagic and bathypelagic layers	PROGRESS IN OCEANOGRAPHY	Deep-sea environments host the largest pool of microbes and represent the last largely unexplored and poorly known ecosystems on Earth. The Ross Sea is characterized by unique oceanographic dynamics and harbors several water masses deeply involved in cooling and ventilation of deep oceans. In this study the V9 region of the 18S rDNA was targeted and sequenced with the Ion Torrent high-throughput sequencing technology to unveil differences in protist communities (>2 mu m) correlated with biogeochemical properties of the water masses. The analyzed samples were significantly different in terms of environmental parameters and community composition outlining significant structuring effects of temperature and salinity. Overall, Alveolata (especially Dinophyta), Stramenopiles and Excavata groups dominated mesopelagic and bathypelagic layers, and protist communities were shaped according to the biogeochemistry of the water masses (advection effect and mixing events). Newly-formed High Salinity Shelf Water (HSSW) was characterized by high relative abundance of phototrophic organisms that bloom at the surface during the austral summer. Oxygen-depleted Circumpolar Deep Water (CDW) showed higher abundance of Excavata, common bacterivores in deep water masses. At the shelf-break, Antarctic Bottom Water (AABW), formed by the entrainment of shelf waters in CDW, maintained the eukaryotic genetic signature typical of both parental water masses. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2016	149	10.1016/j.pocean.2016.10.003
Liu, CX; Dong, YH; Sun, QW; Jiao, RZ	Soil Bacterial Community Response to Short-Term Manipulation of the Nitrogen Deposition Form and Dose in a Chinese Fir Plantation in Southern China	WATER AIR AND SOIL POLLUTION	The changes of soil bacterial biomass and community composition were monitored in a simulated nitrogen (N) deposition experiment during 4 years of Cunninghamia lanceolata growth in a plantation site in southern China. The experimental design included two N forms (NH4Cl and KNO3) and five levels of N deposition (0, 20, 40, 60, 80 kg N ha(-1)) for 2 years. Research into the bacterial population was conducted using plate count, phospholipid fatty acid (PLFA) composition, and 16Sr DNA gene-based high-throughput pyrosequencing methods. The results of plate count and PLFA analysis indicated that ammonium (NH4+) addition increased bacterial number and biomass, whereas nitrate (NO3-) addition decreased these values. The high-throughput sequencing showed that N deposition of the two N forms inhibited the growth of bacteria compared with control plots, and the changing trend was related to the NH4+-N/NO3--N ratio of soil. When the N deposition dose exceeded 20 kg N ha(-1), there was a significant effect on cultured bacteria counts and bacterial biomass. When examining the bacterial community, we observed 22 bacterial phyla of which Proteobacteria, Acidobacteria, and Actinobacteria were dominant. Acidobacteria abundance was higher in NH4+ treatments than NO3- treatments. When the rates of NH4+ deposition increased, Acidobacteria abundance decreased; however, it showed a positive correlation in NO3- treatments. The bacterial cluster structures were significantly different between different N addition rates in the NO3--treated plots. This research will provide data support to addressing the negative influences of nitrogen deposition and provide reference for soil management.	2016	227	10.1007/s11270-016-3152-0
Nino-Garcia, JP; Ruiz-Gonzalez, C; del Giorgio, PA	Landscape-scale spatial abundance distributions discriminate core from random components of boreal lake bacterioplankton	ECOLOGY LETTERS	Aquatic bacterial communities harbour thousands of coexisting taxa. To meet the challenge of discriminating between a core and a sporadically occurring random component of these communities, we explored the spatial abundance distribution of individual bacterioplankton taxa across 198 boreal lakes and their associated fluvial networks (188 rivers). We found that all taxa could be grouped into four distinct categories based on model statistical distributions (normal like, bimodal, logistic and lognormal). The distribution patterns across lakes and their associated river networks showed that lake communities are composed of a core of taxa whose distribution appears to be linked to in-lake environmental sorting (normal-like and bimodal categories), and a large fraction of mostly rare bacteria (94% of all taxa) whose presence appears to be largely random and linked to downstream transport in aquatic networks (logistic and lognormal categories). These rare taxa are thus likely to reflect species sorting at upstream locations, providing a perspective of the conditions prevailing in entire aquatic networks rather than only in lakes.	2016	19	10.1111/ele.12704
Sakaeva, A; Sokol, ER; Kohler, TJ; Stanish, LF; Spaulding, SA; Howkins, A; Welch, KA; Lyons, WB; Barrett, JE; McKnight, DM	Evidence for dispersal and habitat controls on pond diatom communities from the McMurdo Sound Region of Antarctica	POLAR BIOLOGY	Microbial life flourishes in the ponds of the McMurdo Sound Region, which includes the McMurdo Dry Valleys (MDV) and the exposed coastal areas of Ross Island, Antarctica. Diatoms live within resident microbial mats, and because of the simplified trophic structure and limited dispersal vectors, the McMurdo Sound Region is an ideal locality to investigate diatom community assembly processes. Wind is hypothesized to transport microbiota between habitats, and following the species-sorting perspective, local conditions should act as an environmental filter. However, the role of spatial scale versus habitat characteristics on diatom community structure has not been investigated. To gain insight into these processes, we sampled microbial mats from 25 ponds and used variation partitioning to assess the spatial scales at which diatoms were influenced by chemistry and physical variables. We found substantial spatial structure in diatom communities, and spatial scale explained more variability than environmental variables. No diatoms were exclusive to Ross Island, but some species were only found in the MDVs. Furthermore, diatom communities were more likely to resemble those from other nearby ponds rather than distant ones, regardless of environmental conditions. Of the environmental variables, bromide and chloride (both indicators of marine influence) were among the most important. These results suggest that geography, dispersal, and historical environmental conditions play a major role in structuring diatom communities at large spatial scales, and chemistry may be more important within regions. These results help explain the biogeography of diatoms here and elsewhere and expand our knowledge of mechanisms influencing microbial metacommunity structure.	2016	39	10.1007/s00300-016-1901-6
Thaiss, CA; Levy, M; Korem, T; Dohnalova, L; Shapiro, H; Jaitin, DA; David, E; Winter, DR; Gury-BenAri, M; Tatirovsky, E; Tuganbaev, T; Federici, S; Zmora, N; Zeevi, D; Dori-Bachash, M; Pevsner-Fischer, M; Kartvelishvily, E; Brandis, A; Harmelin, A; Shibolet, O; Halpern, Z; Honda, K; Amit, I; Segal, E; Elinav, E	Microbiota Diumal Rhythmicity Programs Host Transcriptome Oscillations	CELL	The intestinal microbiota undergoes diurnal compositional and functional oscillations that affect metabolic homeostasis, but the mechanisms by which the rhythmic microbiota influences host circadian activity remain elusive. Using integrated multi-omics and imaging approaches, we demonstrate that the gut microbiota features oscillating biogeographical localization and metabolome patterns that determine the rhythmic exposure of the intestinal epithelium to different bacterial species and their metabolites over the course of a day. This diurnal microbial behavior drives, in turn, the global programming of the host circadian transcriptional, epigenetic, and metabolite oscillations. Surprisingly, disruption of homeostatic microbiome rhythmicity not only abrogates normal chromatin and transcriptional oscillations of the host, but also incites genome-wide de novo oscillations in both intestine and liver, thereby impacting diurnal fluctuations of host physiology and disease susceptibility. As such, the rhythmic biogeography and metabolome of the intestinal microbiota regulates the temporal organization and functional outcome of host transcriptional and epigenetic programs.	2016	167	10.1016/j.cell.2016.11.003
Gourmelon, V; Maggia, L; Powell, JR; Gigante, S; Hortal, S; Gueunier, C; Letellier, K; Carriconde, F	Environmental and Geographical Factors Structure Soil Microbial Diversity in New Caledonian Ultramafic Substrates: A Metagenomic Approach	PLOS ONE	Soil microorganisms play key roles in ecosystem functioning and are known to be influenced by biotic and abiotic factors, such as plant cover or edaphic parameters. New Caledonia, a biodiversity hotspot located in the southwest Pacific, is one-third covered by ultramafic substrates. These types of soils are notably characterised by low nutrient content and high heavy metal concentrations. Ultramafic outcrops harbour diverse vegetation types and remarkable plant diversity. In this study, we aimed to assess soil bacterial and fungal diversity in New Caledonian ultramafic substrates and to determine whether floristic composition, edaphic parameters and geographical factors affect this microbial diversity. Therefore, four plant formation types at two distinct sites were studied. These formations represent different stages in a potential chronosequence. Soil cores, according to a given sampling procedure, were collected to assess microbial diversity using a metagenomic approach, and to characterise the physico-chemical parameters. A botanical inventory was also performed. Our results indicated that microbial richness, composition and abundance were linked to the plant cover type and the dominant plant species. Furthermore, a large proportion of Ascomycota phylum (fungi), mostly in non-rainforest formations, and Planctomycetes phylum (bacteria) in all formations were observed. Interestingly, such patterns could be indicators of past disturbances that occurred on different time scales. Furthermore, the bacteria and fungi were influenced by diverse edaphic parameters as well as by the interplay between these two soil communities. Another striking finding was the existence of a site effect. Differences in microbial communities between geographical locations may be explained by dispersal limitation in the context of the biogeographical island theory. In conclusion, each plant formation at each site possesses is own microbial community resulting from multiple interactions between abiotic and biotic factors.	2016	11	10.1371/journal.pone.0167405
Hellweger, FL; van Sebille, E; Calfee, BC; Chandler, JW; Zinser, ER; Swan, BK; Fredrick, ND	The Role of Ocean Currents in the Temperature Selection of Plankton: Insights from an Individual-Based Model	PLOS ONE	Biogeography studies that correlate the observed distribution of organisms to environmental variables are typically based on local conditions. However, in cases with substantial translocation, like planktonic organisms carried by ocean currents, selection may happen upstream and local environmental factors may not be representative of those that shaped the local population. Here we use an individual-based model of microbes in the global surface ocean to explore this effect for temperature. We simulate up to 25 million individual cells belonging to up to 50 species with different temperature optima. Microbes are moved around the globe based on a hydrodynamic model, and grow and die based on local temperature. We quantify the role of currents using the advective temperature differential metric, which is the optimum temperature of the most abundant species from the model with advection minus that from the model without advection. This differential depends on the location and can be up to 4 degrees C. Poleward-flowing currents, like the Gulf Stream, generally experience cooling and the differential is positive. We apply our results to three global datasets. For observations of optimum growth temperature of phytoplankton, accounting for the effect of currents leads to a slightly better agreement with observations, but there is large variability and the improvement is not statistically significant. For observed Prochlorococcus ecotype ratios and metagenome nucleotide divergence, accounting for advection improves the correlation significantly, especially in areas with relatively strong poleward or equatorward currents.	2016	11	10.1371/journal.pone.0167010
Kim, JM; Roh, AS; Choi, SC; Kim, EJ; Choi, MT; Ahn, BK; Kim, SK; Lee, YH; Joa, JH; Kang, SS; Lee, SA; Ahn, JH; Song, J; Weon, HY	Soil pH and electrical conductivity are key edaphic factors shaping bacterial communities of greenhouse soils in Korea	JOURNAL OF MICROBIOLOGY	Soil microorganisms play an essential role in soil ecosystem processes such as organic matter decomposition, nutrient cycling, and plant nutrient availability. The land use for greenhouse cultivation has been increasing continuously, which involves an intensive input of agricultural materials to enhance productivity; however, relatively little is known about bacterial communities in greenhouse soils. To assess the effects of environmental factors on the soil bacterial diversity and community composition, a total of 187 greenhouse soil samples collected across Korea were subjected to bacterial 16S rRNA gene pyrosequencing analysis. A total of 11,865 operational taxonomic units at a 97% similarity cutoff level were detected from 847,560 sequences. Among nine soil factors evaluated; pH, electrical conductivity (EC), exchangeable cations (Ca2+, Mg2+, Na+, and K+), available P2O5, organic matter, and NO3-N, soil pH was most strongly correlated with bacterial richness (polynomial regression, pH: R-2 = 0.1683, P < 0.001) and diversity (pH: R-2 = 0.1765, P < 0.001). Community dissimilarities (Bray-Curtis distance) were positively correlated with Euclidean distance for pH and EC (Mantel test, pH: r = 0.2672, P < 0.001; EC: r = 0.1473, P < 0.001). Among dominant phyla (> 1%), the relative abundances of Proteobacteria, Gemmatimonadetes, Acidobacteria, Bacteroidetes, Chloroflexi, and Planctomycetes were also more strongly correlated with pH and EC values, compared with other soil cation contents, such as Ca2+, Mg2+, Na+, and K+. Our results suggest that, despite the heterogeneity of various environmental variables, the bacterial communities of the intensively cultivated greenhouse soils were particularly influenced by soil pH and EC. These findings therefore shed light on the soil microbial ecology of greenhouse cultivation, which should be helpful for devising effective management strategies to enhance soil microbial diversity and improving crop productivity.	2016	54	10.1007/s12275-016-6526-5
Almasia, R; Caru, M; Handford, M; Orlando, J	Environmental conditions shape soil bacterial community structure in a fragmented landscape	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	Several biogeographical hypotheses have been proposed to explain microbial distribution, but there is ongoing debate about the magnitude of the contribution of niche based processes and historical contingencies in determining patterns of microbial structure. In this context, currently fragmented relict forests of olivillo (Aextoxicon punctatum Ruiz et. Pay.), which belonged to a continuous community along the coast of Chile during the Pleistocene, and their surrounding scrublands are ideally suited for testing these hypotheses, since they remain as patches located at the northern tip of the distribution of the relicts. In each study site, edaphic and geographic variables were determined, and the bacterial structures were evaluated at the genetic and metabolic levels through fingerprint approaches along with multivariate analytical methods including redundancy (RDA) and variance partitioning (VPA) analyses. Forests possessed lower pH, and higher contents of moisture and organic matter. In addition, bacterial communities from both habitats differed, whereas the bacterial communities of the forests in different regions were very similar to each other. Our conclusion is that current abiotic soil factors, but not past events due to the historical connection of the forests, account for the variance in the structure of these soil bacterial communities. (C) 2016 Published by Elsevier Ltd.	2016	103	10.1016/j.soilbio.2016.08.004
Zheng, Q; Liu, YT; Jeanthon, C; Zhang, R; Lin, WX; Yao, JC; Jiao, N	Geographic Impact on Genomic Divergence as Revealed by Comparison of Nine Citromicrobial Genomes	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Aerobic anoxygenic phototrophic bacteria (AAPB) are thought to be important players in oceanic carbon and energy cycling in the euphotic zone of the ocean. The genus Citromicrobium, widely found in oligotrophic oceans, is a member of marine alpha-proteobacterial AAPB. Nine Citromicrobium strains isolated from the South China Sea, the Mediterranean Sea, or the tropical South Atlantic Ocean were found to harbor identical 16S rRNA sequences. The sequencing of their genomes revealed high synteny in major regions. Nine genetic islands (GIs) involved mainly in type IV secretion systems, flagellar biosynthesis, prophage, and integrative conjugative elements, were identified by a fine-scale comparative genomics analysis. These GIs played significant roles in genomic evolution and divergence. Interestingly, the coexistence of two different photosynthetic gene clusters (PGCs) was not only found in the analyzed genomes but also confirmed, for the first time, to our knowledge, in environmental samples. The prevalence of the coexistence of two different PGCs may suggest an adaptation mechanism for Citromicrobium members to survive in the oceans. Comparison of genomic characteristics (e.g., GIs, average nucleotide identity [ANI], single-nucleotide polymorphisms [SNPs], and phylogeny) revealed that strains within a marine region shared a similar evolutionary history that was distinct from that of strains isolated from other regions (South China Sea versus Mediterranean Sea). Geographic differences are partly responsible for driving the observed genomic divergences and allow microbes to evolve through local adaptation. Three Citromicrobium strains isolated from the Mediterranean Sea diverged millions of years ago from other strains and evolved into a novel group. IMPORTANCE Aerobic anoxygenic phototrophic bacteria are a widespread functional group in the upper ocean, and their abundance could be up to 15% of the total heterotrophic bacteria. To date, a great number of studies display AAPB biogeographic distribution patterns in the ocean; however, little is understood about the geographic isolation impact on the genome divergence of marine AAPB. In this study, we compare nine Citromicrobium genomes of strains that have identical 16S rRNA sequences but different ocean origins. Our results reveal that strains isolated from the same marine region share a similar evolutionary history that is distinct from that of strains isolated from other regions. These Citromicrobium strains diverged millions of years ago. In addition, the coexistence of two different PGCs is prevalent in the analyzed genomes and in environmental samples.	2016	82	10.1128/AEM.02495-16
Yuan, HY; Ding, LJ; Wang, N; Chen, SC; Deng, Y; Li, XM; Zhu, YG	Geographic distance and amorphous iron affect the abundance and distribution of Geobacteraceae in paddy soils in China	JOURNAL OF SOILS AND SEDIMENTS	Purpose Geobacteraceae are important dissimilatory Fe (III)-reducing microorganisms, influencing the cycling of metals, nutrients as well as the degradation of organic contaminants. However, little is known about their distribution, diversity, and abundance of Geobacteraceae and the effects of environment factors and geographic distance on the distribution and diversity of Geobacteraceae in paddy soils remain unclear. Therefore, the objectives of this study were to investigate the distribution, diversity, and abundance of Geobacteraceae in paddy soils and to determine key factors in shaping the Geobacteraceae distribution, environmental factors, geographic distance, or both and to quantify their contribution to Geobacteraceae variation. Materials and methods Illumina sequencing and quantitative real-time PCR using a primer set targeting 16S rRNA genes of bacteria affiliated with the family Geobacteraceae were employed to measure the community composition, diversity, and abundance patterns of 16S rRNA genes of Geobacteraceae in 16 samples collected from north to south of China. MRT, Mantel test, and VPA were used to analyze the relationship between communities of Geobacteraceae and environmental factors and geographic distance. Results and discussion Quantitative PCR showed that the abundance of 16S rRNA genes of Geobacteraceae ranged from (1.20 +/- 0.18)x10(8) to 1.13x10(9)+/- 2.25x10(8) copies per gram of soil (dry weight) across different types of soils. Illumina sequencing results showed Geobacter was the dominant genus within the family of Geobacteraceae. Multivariate regression tree (MRT) analysis showed that soil amorphous iron contributed more (22.46 %) to the variation of dominant species of Geobacteraceae than other examined soil chemical factors such as pH (14.52 %), ammonium (5.12 %), and dissolved organic carbon (4.74 %). Additionally, more geographically distant sites harbored less similar communities. Variance partitioning analysis (VPA) showed that geographic distance contributed more to the variation of Geobacteraceae than any other factor, although the environmental factors explained more variation when combined. So, we detected the uneven distribution of Geobacteraceae in paddy soils of China and demonstrated that Geobacteraceae community composition was strongly associated with geographic distance and soil chemical factors including aFe, pH, Fe, DOC, C: N, and NO3--N. These results greatly expand the knowledge of the distribution of Geobacteraceae in environments, particularly in terrestrial ecosystems. Conclusions Our results showed that geographic distance and amorphous iron played important roles in shaping Geobacteraceae community composition and revealed that both geographic distance and soil properties governed Geobacteraceae biogeography in paddy soils. Our findings will be critical in facilitating the prediction of element cycling by incorporating information on functional microbial communities into current biogeochemical models.	2016	16	10.1007/s11368-016-1462-x
Huang, YS; Shen, FT	Bioprospecting of facultatively oligotrophic bacteria from non-rhizospheric soils	APPLIED SOIL ECOLOGY	Conventional cultivation method relies on the use of nutrient-rich medium, which might limit the exploration of oligotrophic bacteria from soil ecosystems. In the present study attempts were made to isolate oligotrophic bacteria from non-rhizospheric samples collected from mountain roadside, beach, bay and wetland using 1000-fold diluted nutrient agar. Phylogenetic analysis and biogeographic studies of these isolates were performed based on their 16S rDNA sequences. Besides, tests for the utilization of methanol or agar as their carbon source (methylotrophic or agarolytic), light as their energy source (photoheterotrophic), fixation of nitrogen or solubilization of tricalcium phosphate were conducted. A total of 74 isolates with facultatively oligotrophic behavior were obtained, since they can proliferate on both 1000-fold diluted and conventional nutrient agar. 16S rDNA sequence analyses assigned them mainly to class Actinobacteria and alpha-Proteobacteria. All these isolates belonged to 24 genera which encompassed 35 species, demonstrating that these facultatively oligotrophic bacteria occupied a wide range of bacterial lineages. Fifty-seven out of 74 isolates formed colonies on methanol-containing agar, while only 21 showed better growth in methanol-containing medium. Nine isolates were verified to utilize agar instead of methanol for growth. A total of 4 isolates showed photoheterotrophic trait and the pufLM gene was successfully PCR amplified and sequenced. The methylotrophic or photoheterotrophic behaviors might provide advantages for them to inhabit oligotrophic environments. Members affiliated with many genera were first demonstrated to fix nitrogen or solubilize phosphate, and isolates with profound activities have potentials to be developed as bioinoculants used to promote plant growth. In addition, the use of diluted nutrient agar helped to explore several unrecognized species from non-rhizospheric soils. All these isolates may provide opportunities for studying their oligotrophic growth, metabolism and interaction with plants in a near future. (C) 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2016	108	10.1016/j.apsoil.2016.09.004
Monard, C; Gantner, S; Bertilsson, S; Hallin, S; Stenlid, J	Habitat generalists and specialists in microbial communities across a terrestrial-freshwater gradient	SCIENTIFIC REPORTS	Observations of distributions of microorganisms and their differences in community composition across habitats provide evidence of biogeographical patterns. However, little is known about the processes controlling transfers across habitat gradients. By analysing the overall microbial community composition (bacteria, fungi, archaea) across a terrestrial-freshwater gradient, the aim of this study was to understand the spatial distribution patterns of populations and identify taxa capable of crossing biome borders. Barcoded 454 pyrosequencing of taxonomic gene markers was used to describe the microbial communities in adjacent soil, freshwater and sediment samples and study the role of biotic and spatial factors in shaping their composition. Few habitat generalists but a high number of specialists were detected indicating that microbial community composition was mainly regulated by species sorting and niche partitioning. Biotic interactions within microbial groups based on an association network underlined the importance of Actinobacteria, Sordariomycetes, Agaricomycetes and Nitrososphaerales in connecting among biomes. Even if dispersion seemed limited, the shore of the lake represented a transition area, allowing populations to cross the biome boundaries. In finding few broadly distributed populations, our study points to biome specialization within microbial communities with limited potential for dispersal and colonization of new habitats along the terrestrial-freshwater continuum.	2016	6	10.1038/srep37719
Herlemann, DPR; Lundin, D; Andersson, AF; Labrenz, M; Jurgens, K	Phylogenetic Signals of Salinity and Season in Bacterial Community Composition Across the Salinity Gradient of the Baltic Sea	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Understanding the key processes that control bacterial community composition has enabled predictions of bacterial distribution and function within ecosystems. In this study, we used the Baltic Sea as a model system to quantify the phylogenetic signal of salinity and season with respect to bacterioplankton community composition. The abundances of 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing reads were analyzed from samples obtained from similar geographic locations in July and February along a brackish to marine salinity gradient in the Baltic Sea. While there was no distinct pattern of bacterial richness at different salinities, the number of bacterial phylotypes in winter was significantly higher than in summer. Bacterial community composition in brackish vs. marine conditions, and in July vs. February was significantly different. Non-metric multidimensional scaling showed that bacterial community composition was primarily separated according to salinity and secondly according to seasonal differences at all taxonomic ranks tested. Similarly, quantitative phylogenetic clustering implicated a phylogenetic signal for both salinity and seasonality. Our results suggest that global patterns of bacterial community composition with respect to salinity and season are the result of phylogenetically clustered ecological preferences with stronger imprints from salinity.	2016	7	10.3389/fmicb.2016.01883
Flegontova, O; Flegontov, P; Malviya, S; Audic, S; Wincker, P; de Vargas, C; Bowler, C; Lukes, J; Horak, A	Extreme Diversity of Diplonemid Eukaryotes in the Ocean	CURRENT BIOLOGY	The worlds oceans represent by farthe largest biome, with great importance for the global ecosystem [1-4]. The vast majority of ocean biomass and biodiversity is composed of microscopic plankton. Recent results from the Tara Oceans metabarcoding study revealed that a significant part of the plankton in the upper sunlit layer of the ocean is represented by an understudied group of heterotrophic excavate flagellates called diplonemids [5, 6]. We have analyzed the diversity and distribution patterns of diplonemid populations on the extended set of Tara Oceans V9 18S rDNA metabarcodes amplified from 850 size-fractionated plankton communities sampled across 123 globally distributed locations, for the first time also including samples from the mesopelagic zone, which spans the depth from about 200 to 1,000 meters. Diplonemids separate into four major clades, with the vast majority falling into the deep-sea pelagic diplonemid Glade. Remarkably, diversity of this Glade inferred from metabarcoding data surpasses even that of dinoflagellates, metazoans, and rhizarians, qualifying diplonemids as possibly the most diverse group of marine planktonic eukaryotes. Diplonemids display strong vertical separation between the photic and mesopelagic layers, with the majority of their relative abundance and diversity occurring in deeper waters. Globally, diplonemids display no apparent biogeographic structuring, with a few hyperabundant cosmopolitan operational taxonomic units (OTUs) dominating their communities. Our results suggest that the planktonic diplonemids are among the key heterotrophic players in the largest ecosystem of our biosphere, yet their roles in this ecosystem remain unknown.	2016	26	10.1016/j.cub.2016.09.031
Yang, J; Jiang, HC; Wu, G; Liu, W; Zhang, GJ	Distinct Factors Shape Aquatic and Sedimentary Microbial Community Structures in the Lakes of Western China	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Little is known about the relative importance of spatial and environmental factors to structuring aquatic and sedimentary microbial biogeography in lakes. Here, we investigated the microbial community composition (MCC) of the water (n = 35) and sediment (n = 35) samples from 16 lakes in western China (salinity: freshwater to salt saturation; pairwise geographical distance: 9-2027 km) using high-throughput sequencing and evaluated the relative importance of spatial and environmental factors to microbial (including total, abundant, and rare) distributions. Our results showed that spatial factors were more important than environmental factors in shaping the biogeography of aquatic and sedimentary microbial communities in the studied lakes, and spatial factors on abundant microbial community was stronger than that on the total/rare microbial communities. Moreover, sedimentary rare MCC might be more sensitive to environmental factors than its aquatic counterpart. Such different biogeography responses of total, abundant, and rare communities to environmental and spatial factors could be ascribed to different physiochemical properties between water and sediment. Collectively, this study expands our understanding of factors shaping microbial biogeography of total, abundant, and rare communities between waters and sediments of lakes.	2016	7	10.3389/fmicb.2016.01782
Dai, ZM; Hu, JJ; Xu, XK; Zhang, LJ; Brookes, PC; He, Y; Xu, JM	Sensitive responders among bacterial and fungal microbiome to pyrogenic organic matter (biochar) addition differed greatly between rhizosphere and bulk soils	SCIENTIFIC REPORTS	Sensitive responses among bacterial and fungal communities to pyrogenic organic matter (PyOM) (biochar) addition in rhizosphere and bulk soils are poorly understood. We conducted a pot experiment with manure and straw PyOMs added to an acidic paddy soil, and identified the sensitive responders whose relative abundance was significantly increased/decreased among the whole microbial community following PyOM addition. Results showed that PyOMs significantly (p < 0.05) increased root growth, and simultaneously changed soil chemical parameters by decreasing soil acidity and increasing biogenic resource. PyOM-induced acidity and biogenic resource co-determined bacterial responder community structure whereas biogenic resource was the dominant parameter structuring fungal responder community. Both number and proportion of responders in rhizosphere soil was larger than in bulk soil, regardless of PyOM types and microbial domains, indicating the microbial community in rhizosphere soil was sensitive to PyOM addition than bulk soil. The significant increased root biomass and length caused by PyOM addition, associated with physiological processes, e.g. C exudates secretion, likely favored more sensitive responders in rhizosphere soil than in bulk soil. Our study identified the responders at fine taxonomic resolution in PyOM amended soils, improved the understanding of their ecological phenomena associated with PyOM addition, and examined their interactions with plant roots.	2016	6	10.1038/srep36101
Liao, JQ; Zhao, L; Cao, XF; Sun, JH; Gao, Z; Wang, J; Jiang, DL; Fan, H; Huang, Y	Cyanobacteria in lakes on Yungui Plateau, China are assembled via niche processes driven by water physicochemical property, lake morphology and watershed land-use	SCIENTIFIC REPORTS	Plateau lakes are important ecosystems with diverse ecological functions. Cyanobacteria play a key role in plateau lakes as primary producers. However, they are threatening when dense blooms occur. Identifying cyanobacteiral biogeography and the mechanism of assembly processes shaping the distribution of cyanobacteria in plateau lakes is critical for understanding cyanobacterial ecology and applying it to lake management. In the present study, the biogeographic pattern and importance of neutral and niche processes in assembly of cyanobacteria in 21 lakes on Yungui Plateau, China were examined. Results showed that cyanobacteria exhibit unique biogeographic pattern, and most of them have a narrow habitat preference in plateau lakes. They were assembled via niche processes driven by water physicochemical property, lake morphology and watershed land-use, which explained 62.4% of the biological variation. Neutral processes were not at play. Water physicochemical property ( key variables - dissolved oxygen, salinity, trophic status and pH) was the most dominant driver shaping its unique biogeographic pattern. Watershed land-use especially urban land, water body and agricultural land also exhibited a strong impact on cyanobacterial distribution, followed by lake morphology. As most of the cyanobacteiral genus detected in these plateau lakes were potential toxin-producers, this study indicated that in order to protect waters from toxic-bloom in the future, reducing nutrient loading and land-use practices are two practical approaches in plateau lake management.	2016	6	10.1038/srep36357
Serra, V; Fokin, SI; Castelli, M; Basuri, CK; Nitla, V; Verni, F; Sandeep, BV; Kalavati, C; Petroni, G	Candidatus Gortzia shahrazadis, a Novel Endosymbiont of Paramecium multimicronucleatum and a Revision of the Biogeographical Distribution of Holospora-Like Bacteria	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Holospora spp. and Candidatus Gortzia infectiva, known as Holospora-like bacteria (HLB), are commonly found as nuclear endosymbionts of ciliates, especially the Paramecium genus. HLB are related by phylogenetic relationships, morphological features, and life-cycles, which involve two alternating morphotypes: reproductive and infectious forms (RF, IF). In this paper we describe a novel species belonging to the Ca. Gortzia genus, detected in P. multimicronucleatum, a ciliate for which infection by an HLB has not been reported, discovered in India. This novel endosymbiont shows unusual and surprising features with respect to other HLB, such as large variations in IF morphology and the occasional ability to reproduce in the host cytoplasm. We propose the name of Candidatus Gortzia shahrazadis for this novel HLB. Moreover, we report two additional species of HLB from Indian Paramecium populations: Ca. Gortzia infectiva (from P. jenningsi), and H. obtusa (from P. caudatum); the latter is the first record of Holospora from a tropical country. Although tropical, we retrieved H. obtusa at an elevation of 706m corresponding to a moderate climate not unlike conditions where Holospora are normally found, suggesting the genus Holospora does exist in tropical countries, but restricted to higher elevations.	2016	7	10.3389/fmicb.2016.01704
Filippidou, S; Wunderlin, T; Junier, T; Jeanneret, N; Dorador, C; Molina, V; Johnson, DR; Junier, P	A Combination of Extreme Environmental Conditions Favor the Prevalence of Endospore-Forming Firmicutes	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Environmental conditions unsuitable for microbial growth are the rule rather than the exception in most habitats. In response to this, microorganisms have developed various strategies to withstand environmental conditions that limit active growth. Endospore-forming Firmicutes (EFF) deploy a myriad of survival strategies in order to resist adverse conditions. Like many bacterial groups, they can form biofilms and detect nutrient scarcity through chemotaxis. Moreover, within this paraphyletic group of Firmicutes, ecophysiological optima are diverse. Nonetheless, a response to adversity that delimits this group is the formation of wet-heat resistant spores. These strategies are energetically demanding and therefore might affect the biological success of EFF. Therefore, we hypothesize that abundance and diversity of EFF should be maximized in those environments in which the benefits of these survival strategies offsets the energetic cost. In order to address this hypothesis, geothermal and mineral springs and drillings were selected because in these environments of steep physicochemical gradients, diversified survival strategies may become a successful strategy.We collected 71 samples from geothermal and mineral environments characterized by none (null), single or multiple limiting environmental factors (temperature, pH, UV radiation, and specific mineral composition). To measure success, we quantified EFF gene copy numbers (GCN; spo0A gene) in relation to total bacterial GCN (16S rRNA gene), as well as the contribution of EFF to community composition. The quantification showed that relative GCN for EFF reached up to 20% at sites characterized by multiple limiting environmental factors, whereas it corresponded to less than 1% at sites with one or no limiting environmental factor. Pyrosequencing of the 16S rRNA gene supports a higher contribution of EFF at sites with multiple limiting factors. Community composition suggested a combination of phylotypes for which active growth could be expected, and phylotypes that are most likely in the state of endospores, in all the sites. In summary, our results suggest that diversified survival strategies, including sporulation and metabolic adaptations, explain the biological success of EFF in geothermal and natural springs, and that multiple extreme environmental factors favor the prevalence of EFF.	2016	7	10.3389/fmicb.2016.01707
Fort, T; Robin, C; Capdevielle, X; Deliere, L; Vacher, C	Foliar fungal communities strongly differ between habitat patches in a landscape mosaic	PEERJ	Background: Dispersal events between habitat patches in a landscape mosaic can structure ecological communities and influence the functioning of agrosystems. Here we investigated whether short-distance dispersal events between vineyard and forest patches shape foliar fungal communities. We hypothesized that these communities homogenize between habitats over the course of the growing season, particularly along habitat edges, because of aerial dispersal of spores. Methods: We monitored the richness and composition of foliar and airborne fungal communities over the season, along transects perpendicular to edges between vineyard and forest patches, using Illumina sequencing of the Internal Transcribed Spacer 2 (ITS2) region. Results: In contrast to our expectation, foliar fungal communities in vineyards and forest patches increasingly differentiate over the growing season, even along habitat edges. Moreover, the richness of foliar fungal communities in grapevine drastically decreased over the growing season, in contrast to that of forest trees. The composition of airborne communities did not differ between habitats. The composition of oak foliar fungal communities change between forest edge and centre. Discussion: These results suggest that dispersal events between habitat patches are not major drivers of foliar fungal communities at the landscape scale. Selective pressures exerted in each habitat by the host plant, the microclimate and the agricultural practices play a greater role, and might account for the differentiation of foliar fugal communities between habitats.	2016	4	10.7717/peerj.2656
Bik, HM; Maritz, JM; Luong, A; Shin, HD; Dominguez-Bello, MG; Carlton, JM	Microbial Community Patterns Associated with Automated Teller Machine Keypads in New York City	MSPHERE	In densely populated urban environments, the distribution of microbes and the drivers of microbial community assemblages are not well understood. In sprawling metropolitan habitats, the urban microbiome may represent a mix of human-associated and environmental taxa. Here we carried out a baseline study of automated teller machine (ATM) keypads in New York City (NYC). Our goal was to describe the biodiversity and biogeography of both prokaryotic and eukaryotic microbes in an urban setting while assessing the potential source of microbial assemblages on ATM keypads. Microbial swab samples were collected from three boroughs (Manhattan, Queens, and Brooklyn) during June and July 2014, followed by generation of Illumina MiSeq datasets for bacterial (16S rRNA) and eukaryotic (18S rRNA) marker genes. Downstream analysis was carried out in the QIIME pipeline, in conjunction with neighborhood metadata (ethnicity, population, age groups) from the NYC Open Data portal. Neither the 16S nor 18S rRNA datasets showed any clustering patterns related to geography or neighborhood demographics. Bacterial assemblages on ATM keypads were dominated by taxonomic groups known to be associated with human skin communities (Actinobacteria, Bacteroides, Firmicutes, and Proteobacteria), although SourceTracker analysis was unable to identify the source habitat for the majority of taxa. Eukaryotic assemblages were dominated by fungal taxa as well as by a low-diversity protist community containing both free-living and potentially pathogenic taxa (Toxoplasma, Trichomonas). Our results suggest that ATM keypads amalgamate microbial assemblages from different sources, including the human microbiome, eukaryotic food species, and potentially novel extremophilic taxa adapted to air or surfaces in the built environment. DNA obtained from ATM keypads may thus provide a record of both human behavior and environmental sources of microbes. IMPORTANCE Automated teller machine (ATM) keypads represent a specific and unexplored microhabitat for microbial communities. Although the number of built environment and urban microbial ecology studies has expanded greatly in recent years, the majority of research to date has focused on mass transit systems, city soils, and plumbing and ventilation systems in buildings. ATM surfaces, potentially retaining microbial signatures of human inhabitants, including both commensal taxa and pathogens, are interesting from both a biodiversity perspective and a public health perspective. By focusing on ATM keypads in different geographic areas of New York City with distinct population demographics, we aimed to characterize the diversity and distribution of both prokaryotic and eukaryotic microbes, thus making a unique contribution to the growing body of work focused on the urban microbiome. In New York City, the surface area of urban surfaces in Manhattan far exceeds the geographic area of the island itself. We have only just begun to describe the vast array of microbial taxa that are likely to be present across diverse types of urban habitats.	2016	1	10.1128/mSphere.00226-16
Jia, XQ; He, ZH; Weiser, MD; Yin, T; Akbar, S; Kong, XS; Tian, K; Jia, YY; Lin, H; Yu, MJ; Tian, XJ	Indoor evidence for the contribution of soil microbes and corresponding environments to the decomposition of Pinus massoniana and Castanopsis sclerophylla litter from Thousand Island Lake	EUROPEAN JOURNAL OF SOIL BIOLOGY	Soil organisms are important in mediating nutrient availability to independent ecosystem for maintaining environment balance. Microbial communities on artificial islands are depauperate due to the influence of biogeographic processes and interference. Thus, there may be an advantage to island ecosystem that explor soil microbial function differentiation for better understand the potential ecological process. Here, we used simulation method in laboratory, created a series of microcosms to examine the decomposition mechanism of soil decomposer on litter decomposition rate of Pinus massoniana and Castanopsis sclerophylla collected from 28 islands in Thousand Island Lake forest. The average decomposition rate of low-quality P. massoniana litter was less than that of high-quality C sclerophylla in most soils. Substrate-induced respiration (SIR) was various among island soils, and it correlated with litter quality and soil N content N content of both decomposing litter was accumulation, while litter N content was negatively correlated with island area. The litter decomposition rate of P. massoniana was higher in most small island soils than in other island soils. Soil cellulase and cellobiohydrolase activities were significantly positively correlated with two litters decomposition rate. Nitrate reductase and urease were significantly positively correlated with island area. Phenol oxidase, peroxidase activities were positively correlated with decomposition rate of P. massoniana litter, implying that special soil enzymes dominated and improved P. massoniana decomposition especially in its home field soils. Result showed that P. massoniana was sensitive to home-field advantage (HFA) in these potential island ecosystems. By contrast. the decomposition rate of C sclerophylla litter did not significantly differ among the soils. In summary, the responses of litter decomposition to island ecosystems were dependent on soil nutrient balance and interaction between litter property and soil microbial communities. (C) 2016 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.	2016	77	10.1016/j.ejsobi.2016.10.003
Shi, YW; Li, C; Yang, HM; Zhang, T; Gao, Y; Zeng, J; Lin, Q; Mahemuti, O; Li, YG; Huo, XD; Lou, K	Endophytic fungal diversity and space-time dynamics in sugar beet	EUROPEAN JOURNAL OF SOIL BIOLOGY	We studied species richness, composition and distribution of sugar beet endophytic fungi with location, plant species and plant growth period using the methods of PCR-based 454 pyrosequencing and terminal-restriction fragment length polymorphism. In total 4345 fungal nuclear ribosomal internal transcribed spacer region sequences (rDNA ITS) obtained from all sugar beet grown in two locations (Shihezi and Changji) on the north slope of Tianshan Mountain, China. The most abundant fungal groups in all sugar beet were Basidiomycota (97.26%). The other dominant phyla were from Ascomycota (0.61%) and Glomeromycota (2.13%). There was a marked difference in diversity of endophytic fungi in sugar beet for different growth stages. The greatest number of Operational T-RFLP Units was detected during sucrose accumulation (84) and tuber growth (74). Endophytic fungal diversity was reduced during seedling growth (18 OTUs) and rosette formation (58 OTUs). One OTU was common to all four periods of growth. There were more OTUs in Shihezi than in Changji. The dynamics of endophytic fungal communities were influenced by plant genotype and plant growth stage. Results indicated that the three factors were significantly related (alpha = 0.05) to the distribution of endophytic fungi, with host species the most important, followed by sampling dates and sampling locations. To our knowledge, this study is the first application of 454 pyrosequencing and T-RFLP to characterize and compare multiple sugar beet samples. (C) 2016 Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.	2016	77	10.1016/j.ejsobi.2016.09.005
Carlson-Banning, KM; Sperandio, V	Catabolite and Oxygen Regulation of Enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli Virulence	MBIO	The biogeography of the gut is diverse in its longitudinal axis, as well as within specific microenvironments. Differential oxygenation and nutrient composition drive the membership of microbial communities in these habitats. Moreover, enteric pathogens can orchestrate further modifications to gain a competitive advantage toward host colonization. These pathogens are versatile and adept when exploiting the human colon. They expertly navigate complex environmental cues and interkingdom signaling to colonize and infect their hosts. Here we demonstrate how enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli (EHEC) uses three sugar-sensing transcription factors, Cra, KdpE, and FusR, to exquisitely regulate the expression of virulence factors associated with its type III secretion system (T3SS) when exposed to various oxygen concentrations. We also explored the effect of mucin-derived nonpreferred carbon sources on EHEC growth and expression of virulence genes. Taken together, the results show that EHEC represses the expression of its T3SS when oxygen is absent, mimicking the largely anaerobic lumen, and activates its T3SS when oxygen is available through Cra. In addition, when EHEC senses mucin-derived sugars heavily present in the O-linked and N-linked glycans of the large intestine, virulence gene expression is initiated. Sugars derived from pectin, a complex plant polysaccharide digested in the large intestine, also increased virulence gene expression. Not only does EHEC sense host-and microbiota-derived interkingdom signals, it also uses oxygen availability and mucin-derived sugars liberated by the microbiota to stimulate expression of the T3SS. This precision in gene regulation allows EHEC to be an efficient pathogen with an extremely low infectious dose. IMPORTANCE Enteric pathogens have to be crafty when interpreting multiple environmental cues to successfully establish themselves within complex and diverse gut microenvironments. Differences in oxygen tension and nutrient composition determine the biogeography of the gut microbiota and provide unique niches that can be exploited by enteric pathogens. EHEC is an enteric pathogen that colonizes the colon and causes outbreaks of bloody diarrhea and hemolytic-uremic syndrome worldwide. It has a very low infectious dose, which requires it to be an extremely effective pathogen. Hence, here we show that EHEC senses multiple sugar sources and oxygen levels to optimally control the expression of its virulence repertoire. This exquisite regulatory control equips EHEC to sense different intestinal compartments to colonize the host.	2016	7	10.1128/mBio.01852-16
Chen, Y; Li, XK; Si, J; Wu, GJ; Tian, LD; Xiang, SR	Changes of the Bacterial Abundance and Communities in Shallow Ice Cores from Dunde and Muztagata Glaciers, Western China	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	In this study, six bacterial community structures were analyzed from the Dunde ice core (9.5-m-long) using 16S rRNA gene cloning library technology. Compared to the Murtagata mountain ice core (37-m-long), the Dunde ice core has different dominant community structures, with five genus-related groups Blastococcus sp./Propionibactenum, Cryobacterium-related., Flavobacterium sp., Pedobacter sp., and Polaromas sp. that are frequently found in the six tested ice layers from 1990 to 2000. Live and total microbial density patterns were examined and related to the dynamics of physical-chemical parameters, mineral particle concentrations, and stable isotopic ratios in the precipitations collected from both Murtagata and Dunde ice cores. The Murtagata ice core revealed seasonal response patterns for both live and total cell density, with high cell density occurring in the warming spring and summer months indicated by the proxy value of the stable isotopic ratios. Seasonal analysis of live cell density for the Dunde ice core was not successful due to the limitations of sampling resolution. Both ice cores showed that the cell density peaks were frequently associated with high concentrations of particles. A comparison of microbial communities in the Dunde and Murtagata glaciers showed that similar taxonomic members exist in the related ice cores, but the composition of the prevalent genus-related groups is largely different between the two geographically different glaciers. This indicates that the micro biogeography associated with geographic differences was mainly influenced by a few dominant taxonomic groups.	2016	7	10.3389/fmicb.2016.01716
Schenck, LP; Surette, MG; Bowdish, DME	Composition and immunological significance of the upper respiratory tract microbiota	FEBS LETTERS	The intestinal microbiota is essential for nutrient acquisition, immune development, and exclusion of invading pathogens. The upper respiratory tract (URT) microbiota is less well studied and does not appear to abide by many of the paradigms of the gastrointestinal tract. Decades of carriage studies in children have demonstrated that microbe-microbe competition and collusion occurs in the URT. Whether colonization with common pathogens (e.g., Staphylococcus aureus and Streptococcus pneumoniae) alters immune development or susceptibility to respiratory conditions is just beginning to be understood. Herein, we discuss the biogeography of the URT microbiota, the succession and evolution of the microbiota through the life course, and discuss the evidence for microbe-microbe interactions in colonization and infection.	2016	590	10.1002/1873-3468.12455
Liao, JQ; Cao, XF; Zhao, L; Wang, J; Gao, Z; Wang, MC; Huang, Y	The importance of neutral and niche processes for bacterial community assembly differs between habitat generalists and specialists	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	The mechanisms of community assembly are a central focus in the field of microbial ecology. However, to what extent these mechanisms differ in importance by traits of groups is poorly understood. Here we quantified the importance of neutral and niche processes in community assembly for bacteria, habitat specialists and generalists in 21 plateau lakes of China. Results showed that both neutral and niche processes played a critical role in the assembly of entire bacterial communities, shaping a unique biogeographical pattern. A few habitat generalists and many specialists were identified. Interestingly, habitat specialists were only governed by niche process, with seven significant environmental variables-salinity, dissolved oxygen, water transparency, total phosphorus, ammonium-nitrogen, temperature and total nitrogen-independently explaining 40.3% of the biological variation. By contrast, habitat generalists were strongly driven by neutral process, with 50.9% of the variation of detection frequency explained in neutral community model. Only three environmental variables-salinity, total nitrogen and dissolved oxygen-significantly affected the distribution of habitat generalists, independently explaining 13.6% of the variation. Governed by different assembly mechanisms, habitat specialists and generalists presented disparate biogeographical patterns. Our result emphasizes the importance of investigating the bacterial community assembly at more refined levels than entire communities.This work shows the biogeography of the entire bacterial communities, specialists and generalists in 21 lakes on Yungui Plateau, China and differentiates the assembly mechanisms for specialists and generalists.This work shows the biogeography of the entire bacterial communities, specialists and generalists in 21 lakes on Yungui Plateau, China and differentiates the assembly mechanisms for specialists and generalists.	2016	92	10.1093/femsec/fiw174
Nayfach, S; Rodriguez-Mueller, B; Garud, N; Pollard, KS	An integrated metagenomics pipeline for strain profiling reveals novel patterns of bacterial transmission and biogeography	GENOME RESEARCH	We present the Metagenomic Intra-species Diversity Analysis System (MIDAS), which is an integrated computational pipeline for quantifying bacterial species abundance and strain-level genomic variation, including gene content and single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), from shotgun metagenomes. Our method leverages a database of more than 30,000 bacterial reference genomes that we clustered into species groups. These cover the majority of abundant species in the human microbiome but only a small proportion of microbes in other environments, including soil and seawater. We applied MIDAS to stool metagenomes from 98 Swedish mothers and their infants over one year and used rare SNPs to track strains between hosts. Using this approach, we found that although species compositions of mothers and infants converged over time, strain-level similarity diverged. Specifically, early colonizing bacteria were often transmitted from an infants mother, while late colonizing bacteria were often transmitted from other sources in the environment and were enriched for spore-formation genes. We also applied MIDAS to 198 globally distributed marine metagenomes and used gene content to show that many prevalent bacterial species have population structure that correlates with geographic location. Strain-level genetic variants present in metagenomes clearly reveal extensive structure and dynamics that are obscured when data are analyzed at a coarser taxonomic resolution.	2016	26	10.1101/gr.201863.115
Descamps, T; De Smet, L; Stragier, P; De Vos, P; de Graaf, DC	Multiple Locus Variable number of tandem repeat Analysis: A molecular genotyping tool for Paenibacillus larvae	MICROBIAL BIOTECHNOLOGY	American Foulbrood, caused by Paenibacillus larvae, is the most severe bacterial disease of honey bees (Apis mellifera). To perform genotyping of P.larvae in an epidemiological context, there is a need of a fast and cheap method with a high resolution. Here, we propose Multiple Locus Variable number of tandem repeat Analysis (MLVA). MLVA has been used for typing a collection of 209 P.larvae strains from which 23 different MLVA types could be identified. Moreover, the developed methodology not only permits the identification of the four Enterobacterial Repetitive Intergenic Consensus (ERIC) genotypes, but allows also a discriminatory subdivision of the most dominant ERIC type I and ERIC type II genotypes. A biogeographical study has been conducted showing a significant correlation between MLVA genotype and the geographical region where it was isolated.	2016	9	10.1111/1751-7915.12375
France, MT; Remold, SK	Interference Competition Among Household Strains of Pseudomonas	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Bacterial species exhibit biogeographical patterns like those observed in larger organisms. The distribution of bacterial species is driven by environmental selection through abiotic and biotic factors as well dispersal limitations. We asked whether interference competition, a biotic factor, could explain variability in habitat use by Pseudomonas species in the human home. To answer this question, we screened almost 8000 directional, pairwise interactions between 89 Pseudomonas strains including members of the Pseudomonas aeruginosa (n=29), Pseudomonas fluorescens (n=21), and Pseudomonas putida (n=39) species groups for the presence of killing. This diverse set of Pseudomonas strains includes those isolated from several different habitats within the home environment and includes combinations of strains that were isolated from different spatial scales. The use of this strain set not only allowed us to analyze the commonality and phylogenetic scale of interference competition within the genus Pseudomonas but also allowed us to investigate the influence of spatial scale on this trait. Overall, the probability of killing was found to decrease with increasing phylogenetic distance, making it unlikely that interference competition accounts for previously observed differential habitat use among Pseudomonas species and species groups. Strikingly, conspecific P. aeruginosa killing accounted for the vast majority of the observed killing, and this killing was found to differ across the habitat type and spatial scale of the strains isolation. These data suggest that interference competition likely plays a large role in the within-species dynamics of P. aeruginosa but not other household Pseudomonas species.	2016	72	10.1007/s00248-015-0652-1
Yashiro, E; Pinto-Figueroa, E; Buri, A; Spangenberg, JE; Adatte, T; Niculita-Hirzel, H; Guisan, A; van der Meer, JR	Local Environmental Factors Drive Divergent Grassland Soil Bacterial Communities in the Western Swiss Alps	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Mountain ecosystems are characterized by a diverse range of climatic and topographic conditions over short distances and are known to shelter a high biodiversity. Despite important progress, still little is known on bacterial diversity in mountain areas. Here, we investigated soil bacterial biogeography at more than 100 sampling sites randomly stratified across a 700-km(2) area with 2,200-m elevation gradient in the western Swiss Alps. Bacterial grassland communities were highly diverse, with 12,741 total operational taxonomic units (OTUs) across 100 sites and an average of 2,918 OTUs per site. Bacterial community structure was correlated with local climatic, topographic, and soil physicochemical parameters with high statistical significance. We found pH (correlated with % CaO and % mineral carbon), hydrogen index (correlated with bulk gravimetric water content), and annual average number of frost days during the growing season to be among the groups of the most important environmental drivers of bacterial community structure. In contrast, bacterial community structure was only weakly stratified as a function of elevation. Contrasting patterns were discovered for individual bacterial taxa. Acidobacteria responded both positively and negatively to pH extremes. Various families within the Bacteroidetes responded to available phosphorus levels. Different verrucomicrobial groups responded to electrical conductivity, total organic carbon, water content, and mineral carbon contents. Alpine grassland bacterial communities are thus highly diverse, which is likely due to the large variety of different environmental conditions. These results shed new light on the biodiversity of mountain ecosystems, which were already identified as potentially fragile to anthropogenic influences and climate change. IMPORTANCE This article addresses the question of how microbial communities in alpine regions are dependent on local climatic and soil physicochemical variables. We benefit from a unique 700-km2 study region in the western Swiss Alps region, which has been exhaustively studied for macro-organismal and fungal ecology, and for topoclimatic modeling of future ecological trends, but without taking into account soil bacterial diversity. Here, we present an in-depth biogeographical characterization of the bacterial community diversity in this alpine region across 100 randomly stratified sites, using 56 environmental variables. Our exhaustive sampling ensured the detection of ecological trends with high statistical robustness. Our data both confirm previously observed general trends and show many new detailed trends for a wide range of bacterial taxonomic groups and environmental parameters.	2016	82	10.1128/AEM.01170-16
Mousing, EA; Richardson, K; Bendtsen, J; Cetinic, I; Perry, MJ	Evidence of small-scale spatial structuring of phytoplankton alpha- and beta-diversity in the open ocean	JOURNAL OF ECOLOGY	Phytoplankton assemblages in the open ocean are usually assumed to be mixed on local scales unless large semi-permanent density discontinuities separating water masses are present. Recent modelling studies have, however, suggested that ephemeral submesoscale oceanographic features leading to only subtle density discontinuities may be important for controlling phytoplankton alpha- and beta-diversity patterns. Until now, no empirical evidence has been presented to support this hypothesis. Using hydrographic and taxonomic composition data collected near Iceland during the period of the 2008 spring bloom, we show that the distribution of phytoplankton alpha- and beta-diversity was related to submesoscale heterogeneity in oceanographic conditions. Distinct phytoplankton communities as well as differences in richness were identified on either side of a front delimiting surface waters of slightly different (0.03) salinities. Alpha-diversity was significantly higher on the high salinity side of the front compared to the low salinity side. This difference was primarily driven by the presence of several large diatom species in the high salinity region, especially of the genus Chaetoceros which dominated the biomass here. By investigating beta-diversity in relation to environmental and spatiotemporal variables, we show that the regional distribution of phytoplankton taxa was influenced by both different environmental conditions on either side of the front and dispersal limitation across the front. Changes in beta-diversity were primarily driven by turnover rather than nestedness and were apparently controlled by different processes in each region.Synthesis. This study shows that small-scale and ephemeral density discontinuities created by submesoscale frontal dynamics can play a major role in structuring patterns of phytoplankton diversity. Evidence is presented that they can generate changes in environmental conditions (leading to environmental filtering) and act as physical (dispersal) barriers for phytoplankton transport. The study suggests that dispersal barriers are potentially of much greater importance for phytoplankton diversity at local scales than currently recognized and indicates that drivers of marine phytoplankton diversity are similar to those structuring diversity of land plants.	2016	104	10.1111/1365-2745.12634
Azovsky, AI; Tikhonenkov, DV; Mazei, YA	An Estimation of the Global Diversity and Distribution of the Smallest Eukaryotes: Biogeography of Marine Benthic Heterotrophic Flagellates	PROTIST	Protists are ubiquitous, but the factors influencing their diversity and biogeography remain unclear. We use a comprehensive database on the marine benthic heterotrophic flagellate (HF) morphospecies to explore the worldwide patterns in their diversity and distribution in comparison with predictions of the Ubiquity model (UM) and Moderate Endemicity model (MEM). The number of known HF morphospecies was limited (even when considering the rates of descriptions), and the local-to-global diversity ratio was relatively high (10-25%). Regional diversity was highly correlated with the investigative effort, indicating considerable under-exploration. Regional endemics were few (not over 19% of total richness), and many morphospecies were widespread or even cosmopolitan. No obvious latitudinal trend in HF diversity was detected. By species composition, the regions were distinctly arranged into three groups according to cold, temperate and warm waters, but not in accordance with geographical distances. This distribution pattern was most likely explained by contemporary climate (temperature) but did not suggest clear geographical barriers for dispersal. Therefore, the HF are less concordant with the MEM predictions but closer to the UM than other (larger) protists. Molecular studies reveal significantly higher HF diversity; the distributional patterns obtained from genetic-and morphology-based data, however, complement but not generally contradict each other. (C) 2016 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.	2016	167	10.1016/j.protis.2016.07.001
Mahajan, R; Nikitina, A; Nozhevnikova, A; Goel, G	Microbial diversity in an anaerobic digester with biogeographical proximity to geothermally active region	ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY	Anaerobic digestion of agricultural biomass or wastes can offer renewable energy, to help meet the rise in energy demands. The performance of an anaerobic digester considerably depends upon the complex interactions between bacterial and archaeal microbiome, which is greatly influenced by environmental factors. In the present study, we evaluate a microbial community of digester located at two different geographical locations, to understand whether the biogeographical proximity of a digester to a geothermally active region has any influence on microbial composition. The comparative microbial community profiling, highlights coexistence of specific bacterial and archaeal representatives (especially, Prosthecochloris sp., Conexibacter sp., Crenarchaeota isolate (Caldivirga sp.), Metallosphaera sp., Pyrobaculum sp. and Acidianus sp.) in a digester with close proximity to geothermally active region (Site I) and their absence in a digester located far-off from geothermally active region (Site II). A Sorensens index of similarity of 83.33% and 66.66% for bacterial and archaeal community was observed in both the reactors, respectively.	2016	37	10.1080/09593330.2016.1159733
Kraemer, SA; Kassen, R	Temporal patterns of local adaptation in soil pseudomonads	PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY B-BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES	Strong divergent selection leading to local adaptation is often invoked to explain the staggering diversity of bacteria in microbial ecosystems. However, examples of specialization by bacterial clones to alternative niches in nature are rare. Here, we investigate the extent of local adaptation in natural isolates of pseudomonads and their relatives to their soil environments across both space and time. Thoughmost isolates grew well inmost environments, patchily distributed low-quality environments were found to drive specialization. In contrast to experimental evolution work on microbial adaptation, temporal adaptation was stronger than spatial adaptation among the isolates and environments we sampled. Time-shift analysis of fitness across two seasons of growth revealed an unexpectedly strong effect of preadaptation. This pattern of apparent future adaptation may be caused by unknown abiotic properties of these environments, phages, bacterial competitors or general mechanisms of ecological niche release, and warrants future study.	2016	283	10.1098/rspb.2016.1652
Prieto-Davo, A; Dias, T; Gomes, SE; Rodrigues, S; Parera-Valadezl, Y; Borralho, PM; Pereira, F; Rodrigues, CMP; Santos-Sanches, I; Gaudencio, SP	The Madeira Archipelago As a Significant Source of Marine-Derived Actinomycete Diversity with Anticancer and Antimicrobial Potential	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Marine derived actinomycetes have demonstrated an ability to produce novel compounds with medically relevant biological activity. Studying the diversity and biogeographical patterns of marine actinomycetes offers an opportunity to identify genera that are under environmental pressures, which may drive adaptations that yield specific biosynthetic capabilities. The present study describes research efforts to explore regions of the Atlantic Ocean, specifically around the Madeira Archipelago, where knowledge of the indigenous actinomycete diversity is scarce. A total of 400 actinomycetes were isolated, sequenced, and screened for antimicrobial and anticancer activities. The three most abundant genera identified were Streptomyces, Actinomadura, and Micromonospora. Phylogenetic analyses of the marine OTUs isolated indicated that the Madeira Archipelago is a new source of actinomycetes adapted to life in the ocean. Phylogenetic differences between offshore (> 100 m from shore) and nearshore (<100 m from shore) populations illustrates the importance of sampling offshore in order to isolate new and diverse bacterial strains. Novel phylotypes from chemically rich marine actinomycete groups like MAR4 and the genus Salinispora were isolated. Anticancer and antimicrobial assays identified Streptomyces, Micromonospora, and Salinispora as the most biologically active genera. This study illustrates the importance of bioprospecting efforts at unexplored regions of the ocean to recover bacterial strains with the potential to produce novel and interesting chemistry.	2016	7	10.3389/fmicb.2016.01594
Niu, JJ; Rang, ZW; Zhang, C; Chen, W; Tian, F; Yin, HQ; Dai, LJ	The succession pattern of soil microbial communities and its relationship with tobacco bacterial wilt	BMC MICROBIOLOGY	Background: The interaction mechanism between crop and soil microbial communities is a key issue in both agriculture and soil ecology. However, how soil microbial communities respond to crop planting and ultimately affect crop health still remain unclear. In this research, we explored how soil microbial communities shifted during tobacco cultivation under different rotation systems (control, maize rotation, lily rotation and turnip rotation). Results: Our analyses showed that soil microbial communities had a general response pattern to tobacco planting, as the abundances of Proteobacteria and Planctomycetes increased while Acidobacteria and Verrucomicrobia decreased during tobacco cultivation, no matter which rotation system was adopted. Notably, tobacco decreased the diversity and co-occurrence of soil microorganisms, but maize rotation might suppress tobacco bacterial wilt by alleviating the decrease in biodiversity and co-occurrence. Molecular ecological network analysis indicated that there was stronger competition between potential disease suppressive (e.g., Acidobacteria) and inducible bacteria (e.g., Chloroflexi) in maize rotation systems. Both soil properties (e.g., pH, Ca content) and microbial communities of tobacco mature period depended on their counterparts of fallow period, and all these factors shaped tobacco disease comprehensively. Conclusions: Both soil microbial communities of fallow stage and tobacco selection shaped the communities of tobacco mature stage. And effective rotation crop (maize) could decrease the incidence of tobacco bacterial wilt by alleviating the decrease in diversity and co-occurrences of microbial populations. This study would deepen our understanding about succession mechanism of soil microbial communities during crop cultivation and their relationship with crop health.	2016	16	10.1186/s12866-016-0845-x
Huang, LQ; Dong, HL; Jiang, HC; Wang, S; Yang, J	Relative importance of advective flow versus environmental gradient in shaping aquatic ammonium oxidizers near the Three Gorges Dam of the Yangtze River, China	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY REPORTS	Construction of a dam in a large river alters its hydrodynamic condition and geochemical gradient, but the effect of such anthropogenic activity on microbial ecology remains poorly understood. To assess this effect, we investigated the relative importance of advective flow versus environmental condition in shaping ammonia oxidizing bacteria (AOB) and archaea (AOA) community from 110 km upstream to the Three Gorges Dam (TGD) of the Yangtze River, China. Water physicochemical conditions, including turbidity, conductivity, redox state and nutrient level, were fairly constant from 110 to 45 km upstream of the TGD, but significantly oscillated near the dam. AOB and AOA in the Yangtze River were dominated by Nitrosospira-and Nitrosopumilus-affiliated clusters, respectively, and these compositions were invariant throughout the sampled 110 km flow path, suggesting that AOB and AOA communities in the river were largely transported from upstream by advection with minor local and transient inputs from surrounding soils and tributaries. However, the abundance of AOB and AOA was influenced by local geochemical conditions, possibly via the growth/decay mechanisms. The source of AOB in the Yangtze River appeared to be derived from soil near the headwater, but its abun-dance was enhanced during downstream transport, likely due to survival and growth.	2016	8	10.1111/1758-2229.12420
Pohajda, I; Babic, KH; Rajnovic, I; Kajic, S; Sikora, S	Genetic Diversity and Symbiotic Efficiency of Indigenous Common Bean Rhizobia in Croatia	FOOD TECHNOLOGY AND BIOTECHNOLOGY	Nodule bacteria (rhizobia) in symbiotic associations with legumes enable considerable entries of biologically fixed nitrogen into soil. Efforts are therefore made to intensify the natural process of symbiotic nitrogen fixation by legume inoculation. Studies of field populations of rhizobia open up the possibility to preserve and probably exploit some indigenous strains with hidden symbiotic or ecological potentials. The main aim of the present study is to determine genetic diversity of common bean rhizobia isolated from different field sites in central Croatia and to evaluate their symbiotic efficiency and compatibility with host plants. The isolation procedure revealed that most soil samples contained no indigenous common bean rhizobia. The results indicate that the cropping history had a significant impact on the presence of indigenous strains. Although all isolates were found to belong to species Rhizobium leguminosarum, significant genetic diversity at the strain level was determined. Application of both random amplification of polymorphic DNA (RAPD) and enterobacterial repetitive intergenic consensus-polymerase chain reaction (ERIC-PCR) methods resulted in similar grouping of strains. Symbiotic efficiency of indigenous rhizobia as well as their compatibility with two commonly grown bean varieties were tested in field experiments. Application of indigenous rhizobial strains as inoculants resulted in significantly different values of nodulation, seed yield as well as plant nitrogen and seed protein contents. The most abundant nodulation and the highest plant nitrogen and protein contents were determined in plants inoculated with R. leguminosarum strains S-17/2 and S-21/6. Although, in general, the inoculation had a positive impact on seed yield, differences depending on the applied strain were not determined. The overall results show the high degree of symbiotic efficiency of the specific indigenous strain S-21/6. These results indicate different symbiotic potential of indigenous strains and confirmed the importance of rhizobial strain selection. These are the first studies of indigenous common bean rhizobia in Croatia that provide the basis for further characterization and selection of highly efficient indigenous strains and their potential use in agricultural practice and future research.	2016	54	10.17113/ftb.54.04.16.4740
Fernandez, LD; Fournier, B; Rivera, R; Lara, E; Mitchell, EAD; Hernandez, CE	Water-energy balance, past ecological perturbations and evolutionary constraints shape the latitudinal diversity gradient of soil testate amoebae in south-western South America	GLOBAL ECOLOGY AND BIOGEOGRAPHY	AimTo assess the largely neglected patterns and causes of latitudinal diversity gradients in soil protists, using South American testate amoebae as model organisms. LocationSouth-western South America (SSA). MethodsWe assessed the relationship among richness, latitude and predictions of eight ecological hypotheses in SSA, a region characterized by harsh abiotic conditions northward and southward from mid-latitudes. We also examined the patterns of latitudinal variation in species range sizes, species composition and phylogenetic relatedness among species to assess whether the responses of species to current climate rely on evolutionary constraints. ResultsRichness followed a unimodal trend with abrupt declines northward and southward from mid-latitudes. This trend was mostly explained by water-energy balance. To our knowledge, this mechanism has never been reported for soil microorganisms before. Species range sizes were larger northward and southward from mid-latitudes, a pattern which we have called the two-way Rapoport effect. Species composition was due to turnover at mid-latitudes and to nestedness towards low and high latitudes. Species at mid-latitudes tended to be less related to each other than those at low and high latitudes, supporting the existence of evolutionary constraints to water-energy availability. Main conclusionsThe unimodal response of species diversity to water and energy availability stems from a combination of the ancestral adaptation of testate amoebae to warm, humid climates and past climate changes that set up permanent harsh abiotic conditions northward and southward from mid-latitudes. Given that other soil microorganisms also depend on water and energy to survive and reproduce, we predict that the unimodal response to water-energy balance observed will also be valid for a large number of microbial groups in SSA. While this diversity trend may not hold true for testate amoebae from other regions, we predict that their evolutionary constraints to water-energy availability will always produce strong relationships among richness, water and energy at large spatial-scales.	2016	25	10.1111/geb.12478
Zhao, F; Xu, KD	Molecular diversity and distribution pattern of ciliates in sediments from deep-sea hydrothermal vents in the Okinawa Trough and adjacent sea areas	DEEP-SEA RESEARCH PART I-OCEANOGRAPHIC RESEARCH PAPERS	In comparison with the macrobenthos and prokaryotes, patterns of diversity and distribution of microbial eukaryotes in deep-sea hydrothermal vents are poorly known. The widely used high-throughput sequencing of 18S rDNA has revealed a high diversity of microeukaryotes yielded from both living organisms and buried DNA in marine sediments. More recently, cDNA surveys have been utilized to uncover the diversity of active organisms. However, both methods have never been used to evaluate the diversity of ciliates in hydrothermal vents. By using high-throughput DNA and cDNA sequencing of 18S rDNA, we evaluated the molecular diversity of ciliates, a representative group of microbial eukaryotes, from the sediments of deep-sea hydrothermal vents in the Okinawa Trough and compared it with that of an adjacent deep-sea area about 15 km away and that of an offshore area of the Yellow Sea about 500 km away. The results of DNA sequencing showed that Spirotrichea and Oligohymenophorea were the most diverse and abundant groups in all the three habitats. The proportion of sequences of Oligohymenophorea was the highest in the hydrothermal vents whereas Spirotrichea was the most diverse group at all three habitats. Plagiopyleans were found only in the hydrothermal vents but with low diversity and abundance. By contrast, the cDNA sequencing showed that Plagiopylea was the most diverse and most abundant group in the hydrothermal vents, followed by Spirotrichea in terms of diversity and Oligohymenophorea in terms of relative abundance. A novel group of ciliates, distinctly separate from the 12 known classes, was detected in the hydrothermal vents, indicating undescribed, possibly highly divergent ciliates may inhabit this environment. Statistical analyses showed that: (i) the three habitats differed significantly from one another in terms of diversity of both the rare and the total ciliate taxa, and; (ii) the adjacent deep sea was more similar to the offshore area than to the hydrothermal vents. In terms of the diversity of abundant taxa, however, there was no significant difference between the hydrothermal vents and the adjacent deep sea, both of which differed significantly from the offshore area. As abundant ciliate taxa can be found in several sampling sites, they are likely adapted to large environmental variations, while rare taxa are found in specific habitat and thus are potentially more sensitive to varying environmental conditions. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2016	116	10.1016/j.dsr.2016.07.007
Gray, SM; Poisot, T; Harvey, E; Mouquet, N; Miller, TE; Gravel, D	Temperature and trophic structure are driving microbial productivity along a biogeographical gradient	ECOGRAPHY	Temperature is known to influence ecosystem processes through its direct effect on biological rates such as respiration and nutrient cycling. These changes can then indirectly affect ecologically processes by altering trophic dynamics, the persistence of a species in a given environment, and, consequently, its distribution. However, it is not known if this direct effect of temperature on biological rates is singularly the most important factor for the functioning of ecosystems, or if trophic structure and the adaptation of a species to the local environment also play an essential role. Understanding the relative importance of these factors is crucial for predicting the impact that climate change will have on species and ecosystems. To achieve a more complete understanding of the impact of changing temperatures, it is necessary to integrate perspectives from biogeography, such as the influences of species distribution and local adaptation, with ecosystem and community ecology. By using the microbial community inhabiting the water-filled leaves of Sarracenia purpurea, we tested the importance of temperature, trophic structure, and local adaptation on ecosystem functioning. We accomplished this by collecting communities along a natural temperature gradient and maintaining these communities in a common garden, factorial experiment. To test for the importance of local adaptation and temperature, the origin of each community was crossed with the temperature from each site. Additionally, to test the importance of top-down trophic regulation for ecosystem functioning, the presence of the mosquito larvae top predator was manipulated. We found that temperature has a greater effect on ecosystem functioning than origin, and that top-down trophic regulation increased with temperature. Our results emphasize the synergistic effects of temperature and biotic interactions when predicting the consequences of global warming on ecosystem functioning.	2016	39	10.1111/ecog.01748
Zhang, JJ; Jing, XY; de Lajudie, P; Ma, C; He, PX; Singh, RP; Chen, WF; Wang, ET	Association of white clover (Trifolium repens L.) with rhizobia of sv. trifolii belonging to three genomic species in alkaline soils in North and East China	PLANT AND SOIL	Rhizobia associated with white clover (Trifolium repens) grown in alkaline soils of China have never been investigated. This is the first survey to report of their genetic and biogeographical diversity. Nodule bacteria were isolated from white clover grown in alkaline soils (pH 8.18-8.99) in North and East China and were characterized by multilocus sequence analysis (MLSA) of the housekeeping genes (atpD, recA, and glnII), and phylogenies of 16S rRNA gene and symbiotic genes nodC and nifH. The biogeographic distribution of rhizobial species was analyzed in relation to the soil factors. A total of 83 new strains could be affiliated to Rhizobium that shared 100 % sequence similarity of 16S rRNA gene with R. leguminosarum, R. acidisoli, R. anhuiense, R. indigoferae, R. sophorae, and R. laguerreae. Three genospecies were further distinguished based on the housekeeping gene analysis among these new strains: R. anhuiense, R. leguminosarum, and a hypothetical novel Rhizobium genospecies. Highly conserved symbiotic genes corresponding to those of symbiovar trifolii in R. leguminosarum were observed among all the new strains. Unique rhizobial communities associated with white clover were detected in the tested alkaline soils, and soil characteristics such as pH and nutrient levels were estimated as the determinant factors. White clover established symbiosis with three Rhizobium genospecies harboring similar symbiotic genes in alkaline soils in China. Biogeographic pattern exists in clover rhizobia that was determined by the soil pH and nutrient levels.	2016	407	10.1007/s11104-016-2899-9
Gumiere, T; Durrer, A; Bohannan, BJM; Andreote, FD	Biogeographical patterns in fungal communities from soils cultivated with sugarcane	JOURNAL OF BIOGEOGRAPHY	AimDespite the important roles that microbial communities play world-wide, relatively little attention has been given to the processes that shape their distributions. Of those studies that have addressed this question, the vast majority has focused on temperate regions and relatively undisturbed environments. In particular, tropical agricultural environments have been rarely studied, and it is commonly assumed that agriculture reduces spatial variation in microbial communities, especially in soil. Here, we evaluated the diversity and abundance of fungal communities in soils used for the cultivation of the worlds largest crop, sugarcane, in the worlds largest producer, Brazil. LocationState of SAo Paulo, Brazil. MethodsOur study sampled across 23,022km(2) of the State of SAo Paulo, Brazil, in an area that is a major producer of sugarcane. The composition of the fungal communities was estimated via terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) analysis, and the fungal abundance was estimated by quantitative PCR (qPCR). ResultsWe observed that the variance in community composition explained by soil characteristics was 2.88%, and that explained by climate variables was 2.93%. In contrast, geographical distance explained 50.75% of the variance. Moreover, the distribution of fungal species abundance fits a neutral model that assumes only dispersal and drift better, rather than models that assume environmental filtering. Main conclusionsOur work demonstrates that fungal communities in soil can exhibit biogeographical patterns, even in agricultural soils, and that these patterns are likely to be due at least in part to dispersal limitation.	2016	43	10.1111/jbi.12775
Kraemer, SA; Wielgoss, S; Fiegna, F; Velicer, GJ	The biogeography of kin discrimination across microbial neighbourhoods	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	The spatial distribution of potential interactants is critical to social evolution in all cooperative organisms. Yet the biogeography of microbial kin discrimination at the scales most relevant to social interactions is poorly understood. Here we resolve the microbiogeography of social identity and genetic relatedness in local populations of the model cooperative bacterium Myxococcus xanthus at small spatial scales, across which the potential for dispersal is high. Using two criteria of relatednesscolony-merger compatibility during cooperative motility and DNA-sequence similarity at highly polymorphic lociwe find that relatedness decreases greatly with spatial distance even across the smallest scale transition. Both social relatedness and genetic relatedness are maximal within individual fruiting bodies at the micrometre scale but are much lower already across adjacent fruiting bodies at the millimetre scale. Genetic relatedness was found to be yet lower among centimetre-scale samples, whereas social allotype relatedness decreased further only at the metre scale, at and beyond which the probability of social or genetic identity among randomly sampled isolates is effectively zero. Thus, in M. xanthus, high-relatedness patches form a rich mosaic of diverse social allotypes across fruiting body neighbourhoods at the millimetre scale and beyond. Individuals that migrate even short distances across adjacent groups will frequently encounter allotypic conspecifics and territorial kin discrimination may profoundly influence the spatial dynamics of local migration. Finally, we also found that the phylogenetic scope of intraspecific biogeographic analysis can affect the detection of spatial structure, as some patterns evident in clade-specific analysis were masked by simultaneous analysis of all strains.	2016	25	10.1111/mec.13803
Michelland, R; Thioulouse, J; Kyselkova, M; Grundmann, GL	Bacterial Community Structure at the Microscale in Two Different Soils	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	The spatial distributions of bacteria in the soil matrix have a role in ecosystem function, for example, at the small scale, through gene transfer or xenobiotic degradation. Soil bacterial biogeography has been evidenced at the large scale, but data are scarce at the small scale. The objective of this work was to determine the spatial pattern of bacterial diversity, in spatially referenced microsamples, in order to define bacterial community spatial traits. Two soils with different physical structures, moderately aggregated (La Cte St Andr, (LCSA)) or poorly aggregated (La Dombes (LD)), were studied. The spatial distribution of bacteria was studied in microsamples (diameter 3 mm) along 10- and 20-cm transects, with a taxonomic microarray. 16S rRNA gene sequencing was used to further study the spatial characteristics of the microbial communities in LD soil. The frequency-occupancy plot, in the LCSA and LD soils, using microarray and sequencing data, followed Hanskis core-satellite theory. The frequency-occupancy distribution plots obtained in two different soils showed bimodality and indicated that the microscale spatial distributions were different, particularly core taxa percentage. Core taxa are widespread and abundant, while satellite taxa are restricted in their distribution. The spread of satellite taxa was at a distance range larger than 5 cm, whereas the core taxa were distributed in a distance range less than 3 mm. Besides, there was a positive abundancy-occupancy relationship at this fine scale. It may be interesting to further evaluate the role of the different bacterial spatial distributions at the fine scale on soil function.	2016	72	10.1007/s00248-016-0810-0
Castle, SC; Nemergut, DR; Grandy, AS; Leff, JW; Graham, EB; Hood, E; Schmidt, SK; Wickings, K; Cleveland, CC	Biogeochemical drivers of microbial community convergence across actively retreating glaciers	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	The ecological processes that influence biogeographical patterns of microorganisms are actively debated. To investigate how such patterns emerge during ecosystem succession, we examined the biogeochemical drivers of bacterial community assembly in soils over two environmentally distinct, recently deglaciated chronosequences separated by a distance of more than 1300 km. Our results show that despite different geographic, climatic, and soil chemical and physical characteristics at the two sites, soil bacterial community structure and decomposer function converged during plant succession. In a comparative analysis, we found that microbial communities in early succession soils were compositionally distinct from a diverse group of mature forest soils, but that the differences between successional soils and mature soils decreased from early to late stages of succession. Overall differences in bacterial community composition between sites were explained by soil pH. However, within-site successional patterns - leading to community convergence across sites at the latest stage of succession - were explained by alternate factors such as soil organic carbon and soil organic matter chemistry, which were correlated to bacterial community structure across both glacial and mature forest soils. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2016	101	10.1016/j.soilbio.2016.07.010
Rull, V; Vegas-Vilarrubia, T; Safont, E	The Lost Worlds pristinity at risk	DIVERSITY AND DISTRIBUTIONS	The Guayana Highlands (GH) are virtually pristine environments and constitute a unique natural laboratory to study the biogeographical and evolutionary origin of the Neotropical biota. In addition, the GH provide most of the water of the Guayana region, which feeds the more important tributaries of the Orinoco and the Amazon basins. However, the biota and the ecosystems of the GH are in danger of being profoundly altered by current human activities. Recent studies have identified the presence of aggressive invader plant species (e.g. Poa annua and Polypogon elongatus) and infectious faecal bacteria (Helicobacter pilori), both carried by tourists, which could deeply affect biodiversity and ecological performance of terrestrial and aquatic GH ecosystems. If these hazards are not controlled as soon as possible, the potential consequences could disturb not only the GH ecosystems but also those of the rest of the Guayana region. We still have time to find solutions and implement specific regulations before the mentioned threats become uncontrollable. The GH are within a national park and other conservation figures but a management plan is lacking; therefore, current conservation rules are insufficient to deal with the newly detected menaces. We propose an international initiative, including all countries of the Guayana Shield, to take immediate actions. Otherwise, we are in danger of losing one of the few pristine biomes that remain in the world.	2016	22	10.1111/ddi.12469
Renard, P; Canet, I; Sancelme, M; Wirgot, N; Deguillaume, L; Delort, AM	Screening of cloud microorganisms isolated at the Puy de Dome (France) station for the production of biosurfactants	ATMOSPHERIC CHEMISTRY AND PHYSICS	A total of 480 microorganisms collected from 39 clouds sampled at the Puy de Dome station (alt. 1465 m; 45 degrees 4619  N, 2 degrees 5752  E; Massif Central, France) were isolated and identified. This unique collection was screened for biosurfactant (surfactants of microbial origin) production by measuring the surface tension (sigma) of the crude extracts, comprising the supernatants of the pure cultures, using the pendant drop technique. The results showed that 41% of the tested strains were active producers (sigma < 55mN m(-1)), with 7% being extremely active (sigma < 30mN m(-1)). The most efficient biosurfactant producers (sigma < 45mN m(-1)) belong to a few bacterial genera (Pseudomonas and Xanthomonas) from the gamma - Proteobacteria class (78 %) and a yeast genus (Udeniomyces) from the Basidiomycota phylum (11 %). Some Bacillus strains from the Firmicutes phylum were also active but represented a small fraction of the collected population. Strains from the Actinobacteria phylum in the collection examined in the present study showed moderate biosurfactant production (45 < sigma < 55mN m(-1)). Pseudomonas (gamma - Proteobacteria), the most frequently detected genus in clouds, with some species issued from the phyllosphere, was the dominant group for the production of biosurfactants. We observed some correlations between the chemical composition of cloud water and the presence of biosurfactant-producing microorganisms, suggesting the biogeography of this production. Moreover, the potential impact of the production of biosurfactants by cloud microorganisms on atmospheric processes is discussed.	2016	16	10.5194/acp-16-12347-2016
Gulbudak, H; Weitz, JS	A touch of sleep: biophysical model of contact-mediated dormancy of archaea by viruses	PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY B-BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES	The canonical view of the interactions between viruses and their microbial hosts presumes that changes in host and virus fate requires the initiation of infection of a host by a virus. Infection may lead to the death of the host cell and release of viruses, to the elimination of the viral genome through cellular defence mechanisms or the integration of the viral genome with the host as a chromosomal or extrachromosomal element. Here, we revisit this canonical view, inspired by recent experimental findings in which the majority of target host cells can be induced into a dormant state when exposed to either active or deactivated viruses, even when viruses are present at low relative titre. We propose that both the qualitative phenomena and the quantitative timescales of dormancy induction are consistent with the hypothesis that cellular physiology can be altered by contact on the surface of host cells rather than strictly by infection. In order to test this hypothesis, we develop and study a biophysical model of contact-mediated dynamics involving virus particles and target cells. We show how virus particles can catalyse cellular transformations among many cells, even if they ultimately infect only one (or none). We also find that population-scale dormancy is robust to variation in the representation of model dynamics, including cell growth, death and recovery.	2016	283	10.1098/rspb.2016.1037
Eggleston, EM; Hewson, I	Abundance of Two Pelagibacter ubique Bacteriophage Genotypes along a Latitudinal Transect in the North and South Atlantic Oceans	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	This study characterizes viral and bacterial dynamics along a latitudinal transect in the Atlantic Ocean from approximately 10 N-40 S. Overall viral abundance decreased with depth, on average there were 1.64 +/- 0.71 x 10(7) virus like particles (VLPs) in surface waters, decreasing to an average of 6.50 +/- 2.26 x 10(5) VLPs in Antarctic Bottom Water. This decrease was highly correlated to bacterial abundance. There are six major water masses in the Southern Tropical Atlantic Ocean, and inclusion of water mass, temperature and salinity variables explained a majority of the variation in total viral abundance. Recent discovery of phages infecting bacteria of the SAR11 Glade of Alphaproteobacteria (i.e., pelagiphages) leads to intriguing questions about the roles they play in shaping epipelagic communities. Viral-size fraction DNA from epipelagic water was used to quantify the abundance of two pelagiphages, using pelagiphage-specific quantitative PCR primers and probes along the transect. We found that HTVC010P, a member of a podoviridae sub-family, was most abundant in surface waters. Copy numbers ranged from an average of 1.03 +/- 2.38 x 10(5) copies ml(-1) in surface waters, to 5.79 +/- 2.86 x 10(3) in the deep chlorophyll maximum. HTVC008M, a T4-like myovirus, was present in the deep chlorophyll maximum (5.42 +/- 2.8 x 10(3) copies ml(-1) on average), although it was not as highly abundant as HTVC010P in surface waters (6.05 +/- 3.01 x 10(3) copies ml(-1) on average). Interestingly, HTVC008M was only present at a few of the most southern stations, suggesting latitudinal biogeography of SAR11 phages.	2016	7	10.3389/fmicb.2016.01534
Suzuki, TA; Nachman, MW	Spatial Heterogeneity of Gut Microbial Composition along the Gastrointestinal Tract in Natural Populations of House Mice	PLOS ONE	There is a growing appreciation of the role of gut microbial communities in host biology. However, the nature of variation in microbial communities among different segments of the gastrointestinal (GI) tract is not well understood. Here, we describe microbial communities from ten different segments of the GI tract (mouth, esophagus, stomach, duodenum, ileum, proximal cecum, distal cecum, colon, rectum, and feces) in wild house mice using 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing. We also measured carbon and nitrogen stable isotopic ratios from hair samples of individual mice as a proxy for diet. We identified factors that may explain differences in microbial composition among gut segments, and we tested for differences among individual mice in the composition of the microbiota. Consistent with previous studies, the lower GI tract was characterized by a greater relative abundance of anaerobic bacteria and greater microbial diversity relative to the upper GI tract. The upper and lower GI tracts also differed in the relative abundances of predicted microbial gene functions, including those involved in metabolic pathways. However, when the upper and lower GI tracts were considered separately, gut microbial composition was associated with individual mice. Finally, microbial communities derived from fecal samples were similar to those derived from the lower GI tract of their respective hosts, supporting the utility of fecal sampling for studying the gut microbiota of mice. These results show that while there is substantial heterogeneity among segments of the GI tract, individual hosts play a significant role in structuring microbial communities within particular segments of the GI tract.	2016	11	10.1371/journal.pone.0163720
Louca, S; Parfrey, LW; Doebeli, M	Decoupling function and taxonomy in the global ocean microbiome	SCIENCE	Microbial metabolism powers biogeochemical cycling in Earths ecosystems. The taxonomic composition of microbial communities varies substantially between environments, but the ecological causes of this variation remain largely unknown. We analyzed taxonomic and functional community profiles to determine the factors that shape marine bacterial and archaeal communities across the global ocean. By classifying >30,000 marine microorganisms into metabolic functional groups, we were able to disentangle functional from taxonomic community variation. We find that environmental conditions strongly influence the distribution of functional groups in marine microbial communities by shaping metabolic niches, but only weakly influence taxonomic composition within individual functional groups. Hence, functional structure and composition within functional groups constitute complementary and roughly independent axes of variation shaped by markedly different processes.	2016	353	10.1126/science.aaf4507
Zu, QH; Zhong, LH; Deng, Y; Shi, Y; Wang, BZ; Jia, ZJ; Lin, XG; Feng, YZ	Geographical Distribution of Methanogenic Archaea in Nine Representative Paddy Soils in China	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Paddy field methanogenic archaea are responsible for methane (CH4) production and contribute significantly to climate change. The information regarding the spatial variations in the abundance, the diversity and the composition of such ecologically important microbes, however, is quite limited at large scale. In this investigation, we studied the abundance, alpha diversity and geographical distribution of methanogenic archaeal communities in nine representative paddy sites, along a large latitudinal gradient in China, using pyrosequencing and real-time quantitative PCR. It is found that all paddy soils harbor constant methanogenic archaeal constituents, which is dominated by family Methanocellaceae (37.3%), Methanobacteriaceae (22.1%), Methanosaetaceae (17.2%), and Methanosarcinaceae (9.8%). Methanogenic archaeal abundance is primarily influenced by soil C (R = 0.612, P = 0.001) and N (R = 0.673, P = 0.001) contents, as well as alpha diversity by soil pH (PD: R = -0.552, P = 0.006; Chao1: R = -0.615, P = 0.002). Further exploration revealed that both spatial distance (R = 0.3469, P = 0.001, partial mental test) and soil chemical variables mainly about soil C and N (R = 0.2847, P = 0.001) are the two major factors affecting methanogenic archaeal community composition distribution in paddy soils. This finding will allow us to develop a better picture of the biogeographic ranges of these ecologically important microbes and get deeper insights into their ecology.	2016	7	10.3389/fmicb.2016.01447
Zhao, F; Qin, YH; Zheng, X; Zhao, HW; Chai, DY; Li, W; Pu, MX; Zuo, XS; Qian, W; Ni, P; Zhang, Y; Mei, H; He, ST	Biogeography and Adaptive evolution of Streptomyces Strains from saline environments	SCIENTIFIC REPORTS	The genus Streptomyces is a widespread genus within the phylum Actinobacteria and has been isolated from various environments worldwide. However, little is known about whether biogeography affects distributional pattern of Streptomyces in salty environments. Such information is essential for understanding the ecology of Streptomyces. Here we analyzed four house-keeping genes (16S rRNA, rpoB, recA and atpD) and salty-tolerance related genes (ectA-ectD) of 38 Streptomyces strains isolated from saline environments in Yunnan and Xinjiang Provinces of western China. The obtained Streptomyces strains were classified into three operational taxonomic units, each comprising habitat-specific geno-and ecotype STs. In combination with expressional variations of salty-tolerance related genes, the statistical analyses showed that spatial distance and environmental factors substantially influenced Streptomyces distribution in saline environments: the former had stronger influence at large spatial scales (> 700 km), whereas the latter was influential at large (> 700 km) and small spatial scales (< 700 km). Plus, the quantitative analyses of salty-tolerence related genes (ectA-D) indicated that Streptomyces strains from salt lakes have higher expression of ectA-D genes and could accumulate larger quantities of ectoine and hydroxyectoine than strains from salt mines, which could help them resist to salinity in the hypersaline environments.	2016	6	10.1038/srep32718
Hickman, CS	New species of deep-sea gastropods from the Indo-West Pacific Region (Gastropoda: Vetigastropoda: Seguenzioidea: Calliotropidae) with a geologic and biogeographic perspective	NAUTILUS	This paper identifies the biogeographic realm of Wallacea as a center of deep-sea (>200 m) endemism in the basal gastropod family Calliotropidae Hickman and McLean, 1990. Six new medium- to large-shelled species are described from Sulawesi: Calliotropis bukabukaensis, C. tominiensis, and C. new species from >1000 m in the Gulf of Tomini and C. tabakuensis, C. locolocoensis, and C. lamuluensis from the > 988 m in the Gulf of Bone. Two additional large-shelled species are described: C. enantioserrata from >1000 m on the eastern Australian slope in the northern Tasman Sea and C andamanensis from 500 m in the Andaman Sea off the west coast of Thailand. Previous descriptions and records of Calliotropis species in Indonesia are from the margins of Wallacea-the Makassar Strait and Islands in the Banda Arc, notably Kai, Tanimbar, and Timor. When calliotropid biodiversity is connected with the large body of new knowledge of the contorted seafloor relief of the Indonesian region, it is clear that entire deep basins underlain by oceanic crust have never been sampled. The widespread occurrence of Cenozoic calliotropid gastropods in chemosynthetically based ecosystems is consistent with new data from petroleum exploration in the volcanic arcs of Indonesia documenting mud volcanoes and expulsion of geofluids (hydrocarbons, sulfides) that typically support rich microbial communities in the deep sea. The long and complex history of the collision of the Eurasian and Australian plates, arc volcanism, subduction, fusion of remnant pieces of continental crust, and opening of new deep gulfs affect the movement of shallow and deep currents and the Indonesian Throughflow from the Pacific into the Indian Ocean. This physical history generates testable hypotheses for reassessing the phylogenetic history of ancient gastropod lineages that originated in the Mesozoic Era or earlier.	2016	130	
DePas, WH; Starwalt-Lee, R; Van Sambeek, L; Kumar, SR; Gradinaru, V; Newman, DK	Exposing the Three-Dimensional Biogeography and Metabolic States of Pathogens in Cystic Fibrosis Sputum via Hydrogel Embedding, Clearing, and rRNA Labeling	MBIO	Physiological resistance to antibiotics confounds the treatment of many chronic bacterial infections, motivating researchers to identify novel therapeutic approaches. To do this effectively, an understanding of how microbes survive in vivo is needed. Though much can be inferred from bulk approaches to characterizing complex environments, essential information can be lost if spatial organization is not preserved. Here, we introduce a tissue-clearing technique, termed MiPACT, designed to retain and visualize bacteria with associated proteins and nucleic acids in situ on various spatial scales. By coupling MiPACT with hybridization chain reaction (HCR) to detect rRNA in sputum samples from cystic fibrosis (CF) patients, we demonstrate its ability to survey thousands of bacteria (or bacterial aggregates) over millimeter scales and quantify aggregation of individual species in polymicrobial communities. By analyzing aggregation patterns of four prominent CF pathogens, Staphylococcus aureus, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Streptococcus sp., and Achromobacter xylosoxidans, we demonstrate a spectrum of aggregation states: from mostly single cells (A. xylosoxidans), to medium-sized clusters (S. aureus), to a mixture of single cells and large aggregates (P. aeruginosa and Streptococcus sp.). Furthermore, MiPACT-HCR revealed an intimate interaction between Streptococcus sp. and specific host cells. Lastly, by comparing standard rRNA fluorescence in situ hybridization signals to those from HCR, we found that different populations of S. aureus and A. xylosoxidans grow slowly overall yet exhibit growth rate heterogeneity over hundreds of microns. These results demonstrate the utility of MiPACT-HCR to directly capture the spatial organization and metabolic activity of bacteria in complex systems, such as human sputum. IMPORTANCE The advent of metagenomic and metatranscriptomic analyses has improved our understanding of microbial communities by empowering us to identify bacteria, calculate their abundance, and profile gene expression patterns in complex environments. We are still technologically limited, however, in regards to the many questions that bulk measurements cannot answer, specifically in assessing the spatial organization of microbe-microbe and microbe-host interactions. Here, we demonstrate the power of an enhanced optical clearing method, MiPACT, to survey important aspects of bacterial physiology (aggregation, host interactions, and growth rate), in situ, with preserved spatial information when coupled to rRNA detection by HCR. Our application of MiPACT-HCR to cystic fibrosis patient sputum revealed species-specific aggregation patterns, yet slow growth characterized the vast majority of bacterial cells regardless of their cell type. More broadly, MiPACT, coupled with fluorescent labeling, promises to advance the direct study of microbial communities in diverse environments, including microbial habitats within mammalian systems.	2016	7	10.1128/mBio.00796-16
Keilberg, D; Zavros, Y; Shepherd, B; Salama, NR; Ottemann, KM	Spatial and Temporal Shifts in Bacterial Biogeography and Gland Occupation during the Development of a Chronic Infection	MBIO	Gland colonization may be one crucial route for bacteria to maintain chronic gastrointestinal infection. We developed a quantitative gland isolation method to allow robust bacterial population analysis and applied it to the gastric pathobiont Helicobacter pylori. After infections in the murine model system, H. pylori populations multiply both inside and outside glands in a manner that requires the bacteria to be motile and chemotactic. H. pylori is able to achieve gland densities averaging 25 to 40 bacteria/gland after 2 to 4 weeks of infection. After 2 to 4 weeks of infection, a primary infection leads to colonization resistance for a secondary infection. Nonetheless, about similar to 50% of the glands remained unoccupied, suggesting there are as-yet unappreciated parameters that prevent gastric gland colonization. During chronic infections, H. pylori populations collapsed to nearly exclusive gland localization, to an average of <8 bacteria/gland, and only 10% of glands occupied. We analyzed an H. pylori chemotaxis mutant (Che(-)) to gain mechanistic insight into gland colonization. Che(-) strains had a severe inability to spread to new glands and did not protect from a secondary infection but nonetheless achieved a chronic gland colonization state numerically similar to that of the wild type. Overall, our analysis shows that bacteria undergo substantial population dynamics on the route to chronic colonization, that bacterial gland populations are maintained at a low level during chronic infection, and that established gland populations inhibit subsequent colonization. Understanding the parameters that promote chronic colonization will allow the future successful design of beneficial microbial therapeutics that are able to maintain long-term mammalian colonization. IMPORTANCE Many bacteria have an impressive ability to stay in the gastrointestinal tract for decades despite ongoing flow and antimicrobial attacks. How this staying power is achieved is not fully understood, but it is important to understand as scientists plan so-called designer microbiomes. The gastrointestinal tract is lined with repeated invaginations called glands, which may provide one niche for chronic colonization. We developed a quantitative gland isolation method to allow robust and efficient bacterial population analysis and applied it to the gastric pathogen Helicobacter pylori. Bacterial populations increased inside and outside glands at early time points but were found exclusively within glands during late time points in the chronic state. H. pylori required the ability to swim to move to new glands. Last, a fit gland bacterial population leads to colonization resistance of a second one. Our approach identified previously unappreciated aspects of gland occupation, supporting the idea that glands are the desired niche for stable, chronic colonization.	2016	7	10.1128/mBio.01705-16
Trzcinski, MK; Srivastava, DS; Corbara, B; Dezerald, O; Leroy, C; Carrias, JF; Dejean, A; Cereghino, R	The effects of food web structure on ecosystem function exceeds those of precipitation	JOURNAL OF ANIMAL ECOLOGY	1. Ecosystems are being stressed by climate change, but few studies have tested food web responses to changes in precipitation patterns and the consequences to ecosystem function. Fewer still have considered whether results from one geographic region can be applied to other regions, given the degree of community change over large biogeographic gradients. 2. We assembled, in one field site, three types of macroinvertebrate communities within water-filled bromeliads. Two represented food webs containing both a fast filter feeder-microbial and slow detritivore energy channels found in Costa Rica and Puerto Rico, and one represented the structurally simpler food webs in French Guiana, which only contained the fast filter feeder-microbial channel. We manipulated the amount and distribution of rain entering bromeliads and examined how food web structure mediated ecosystem responses to changes in the quantity and temporal distribution of precipitation. 3. Food web structure affected the survival of functional groups in general and ecosystem functions such as decomposition and the production of fine particulate organic matter. Ecosystem processes were more affected by decreased precipitation than were the abundance of micro-organisms and metazoans. In our experiments, the sensitivity of the ecosystem to precipitation change was primarily revealed in the food web dominated by the single filter feeder-microbial channel because other top-down and bottom-up processes were weak or absent. 4. Our results show stronger effects of food web structure than precipitation change per se on the functioning of bromeliad ecosystems. Consequently, we predict that ecosystem function in bromeliads throughout the Americas will be more sensitive to changes in the distribution of species, rather than to the direct effects caused by changes in precipitation.	2016	85	10.1111/1365-2656.12538
Low-Decarie, E; Fussmann, GF; Dumbrell, AJ; Bell, G	Communities that thrive in extreme conditions captured from a freshwater lake	BIOLOGY LETTERS	Organisms that can grow in extreme conditions would be expected to be confined to extreme environments. However, we were able to capture highly productive communities of algae and bacteria capable of growing in acidic (pH 2), basic (pH 12) and saline (40 ppt) conditions from an ordinary freshwater lake. Microbial communities may thus include taxa that are highly productive in conditions that are far outside the range of conditions experienced in their host ecosystem. The organisms we captured were not obligate extremophiles, but were capable of growing in both extreme and benign conditions. The ability to grow in extreme conditions may thus be a common functional attribute in microbial communities.	2016	12	10.1098/rsbl.2016.0562
Grossmann, L; Jensen, M; Heider, D; Jost, S; Glucksman, E; Hartikainen, H; Mahamdallie, SS; Gardner, M; Hoffmann, D; Bass, D; Boenigk, J	Protistan community analysis: key findings of a large-scale molecular sampling	ISME JOURNAL	Protists are perhaps the most lineage-rich of microbial lifeforms, but remain largely unknown. High-throughput sequencing technologies provide opportunities to screen whole habitats in depth and enable detailed comparisons of different habitats to measure, compare and map protistan diversity. Such comparisons are often limited by low sample numbers within single studies and a lack of standardisation between studies. Here, we analysed 232 samples from 10 sampling campaigns using a standardised PCR protocol and bioinformatics pipeline. We show that protistan community patterns are highly consistent within habitat types and geographic regions, provided that sample processing is standardised. Community profiles are only weakly affected by fluctuations of the abundances of the most abundant taxa and, therefore, provide a sound basis for habitat comparison beyond random short-term fluctuations in the community composition. Further, we provide evidence that distribution patterns are not solely resulting from random processes. Distinct habitat types and distinct taxonomic groups are dominated by taxa with distinct distribution patterns that reflect their ecology with respect to dispersal and habitat colonisation. However, there is no systematic shift of the distribution pattern with taxon abundance.	2016	10	10.1038/ismej.2016.10
Kirstein, IV; Kirmizi, S; Wichels, A; Garin-Fernandez, A; Erler, R; Loder, M; Gerdts, G	Dangerous hitchhikers? Evidence for potentially pathogenic Vibrio spp. on microplastic particles	MARINE ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH	The taxonomic composition of biofilms on marine microplastics is widely unknown. Recent sequencing results indicate that potentially pathogenic Vibrio spp. might be present on floating microplastics. Hence, these particles might function as vectors for the dispersal of pathogens. Microplastics and water samples collected in the North and Baltic Sea were subjected to selective enrichment for pathogenic Vibrio species. Bacterial colonies were isolated from CHROMagarTMVibrio and assigned to Vibrio spp. on the species level by MALDI-TOF MS (Matrix Assisted Laser Desorption/Ionisation - Time of Flight Mass Spectrometry). Respective polymers were identified by ATR FT-IR (Attenuated Total Reflectance Fourier Transform Infrared Spectroscopy). We discovered potentially pathogenic Vibrio parahaemolyticus on a number of microplastic particles, e.g. polyethylene, polypropylene and polystyrene from North/Baltic Sea. This study confirms the indicated occurrence of potentially pathogenic bacteria on marine microplastics and highlights the urgent need for detailed biogeographical analyses of marine microplastics. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2016	120	10.1016/j.marenvres.2016.07.004
Arribas, P; Andujar, C; Hopkins, K; Shepherd, M; Vogler, AP	Metabarcoding and mitochondrial metagenomics of endogean arthropods to unveil the mesofauna of the soil	METHODS IN ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION	Biological communities inhabiting the soil are among the most diversified, complex and yet most poorly studied terrestrial ecosystems. The greatest knowledge gaps apply to the arthropod mesofauna (01-2mm body size) because conventional morphological and molecular approaches are in many cases insufficient for the characterisation of these complex communities. The development of high-throughput sequencing (HTS) methodologies is required to solve current impediments and to further advance our understanding of below-ground biodiversity. We propose a flotation-Berlese-flotation (FBF) protocol for sampling and specimen processing to obtain clean DNA extractions of arthropod mesofauna from the soil. In addition, we developed and tested HTS protocols for the characterisation of arthropod communities from these bulk DNA extractions using cox1 metabarcoding and shotgun metagenomic sequencing on the MiSeq Illumina platform. The FBF protocol provided DNA of soil arthropods from sufficiently large volumes of soil and free from contaminating bacteria and inhibitors. Metabarcoding and metagenomic sequencing on two deep soil samples from Iberian grasslands revealed >100 species of Acari and Collembola from 28 families. Genome assembly straight from shotgun sequencing of bulk specimens produced partial and full mitogenomes for 54 species with average length of >6000bp. Metabarcoding and metagenomic sequencing resulted in closely congruent OTUs, but species numbers were highest with metabarcoding, while approximate to 73% of species were confirmed by matching shotgun sequence reads and approximate to 48% by contig assembly from those shotgun reads. In combination, the FBF protocol together with the PCR-based and shotgun sequencing pipelines addressed most of the challenges of studying soil arthropod mesofauna on the MiSeq Illumina platform. They are powerful, cost-efficient tools for characterising soil diversity in a phylogenetic and community ecology context. These methodological developments of HTS approaches for the study of mesofauna will accelerate ecological and evolutionary studies, biomonitoring of soil arthropods, and progress in both theoretical and applied soil science.	2016	7	10.1111/2041-210X.12557
Wolfe, JM; Daley, AC; Legg, DA; Edgecombe, GD	Fossil calibrations for the arthropod Tree of Life	EARTH-SCIENCE REVIEWS	Fossil age data and molecular sequences are increasingly combined to establish a timescale for the Tree of Life. Arthropods, as the most species-rich and morphologically disparate animal phylum, have received substantial attention, particularly with regard to questions such as the timing of habitat shifts (e.g. terrestrialisation), genome evolution (e.g. gene family duplication and functional evolution), origins of novel characters and behaviours (e.g. wings and flight, venom, silk), biogeography, rate of diversification (e.g. Cambrian explosion, insect coevolution with angiosperms, evolution of crab body plans), and the evolution of arthropod microbiomes. We present herein a series of rigorously vetted calibration fossils for arthropod evolutionary history, taking into account recently published guidelines for best practice in fossil calibration. These are restricted to Palaeozoic and Mesozoic fossils, no deeper than ordinal taxonomic level, nonetheless resulting in 80 fossil calibrations for 102 clades. This work is especially timely owing to the rapid growth of molecular sequence data and the fact that many included fossils have been described within the last five years. This contribution provides a resource for systematists and other biologists interested in deep-time questions in arthropod evolution. (C) 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2016	160	10.1016/j.earscirev.2016.06.008
Mora-Ruiz, MD; Font-Verdera, F; Orfila, A; Rita, J; Rossello-Mora, R	Endophytic microbial diversity of the halophyte Arthrocnemum macrostachyum across plant compartments	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	In this study, the microbial community structures of the endosphere of the halophyte Arthrocnemum macrostachyum were evaluated from two locations in Mallorca, Spain, focusing on three plant compartments (roots, green and red stems) compared to the rhizospheric soil where the plants grew. The physicochemical parameters of the rhizospheric soils differed between locations, and the soils were characterized by different microbial community structures. Accordingly, the endophytic community composition, mainly composed of putatively halophilic organisms, was highly influenced by the rhizospheric soil microbiota, as revealed by the co-occurrence of the major endophytic taxa in the endosphere and the rizospheric soils. Moreover, the reduction of diversity from the endorhizosphere towards the red leaves may support the fact that part of colonization of the plant by bacteria could have an origin in the rhizospheric soils through the roots and subsequent migration to the aerial parts of the plant. Finally, there were certain relevant ubiquitous taxa, such as Chromohalobacter canadensis, Rudaea cellulosilytica (never reported before as endophytic), Psychrobacter sp., Bradyrhizobium sp. and Halomonas sp., that, due their moderate halophilic nature, seemed to find an optimal environment inside the plants. Some of these relevant endophytes were not always detectable in their respective soils, and were probably part of the soils rare biosphere, which would gain preponderance in a favorable endophytic environment.We present the microbial characterization of the endosphere of the halophyte Arthrocnemum macrostachyum in three different compartments (roots, green and red stems) detecting a reduction of diversity from root to the more mature stems. We reported also, species never reported before as endophytic.We present the microbial characterization of the endosphere of the halophyte Arthrocnemum macrostachyum in three different compartments (roots, green and red stems) detecting a reduction of diversity from root to the more mature stems. We reported also, species never reported before as endophytic.	2016	92	10.1093/femsec/fiw145
Ortmann, AC; Santos, TTL	Spatial and temporal patterns in the Pelagibacteraceae across an estuarine gradient	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Marine bacterial communities show strong spatial and seasonal patterns, often characterized by changes at high taxonomic levels. The Pelagibacteraceae are common members of bacterial communities, with well-documented biogeography at the subclade level. To identify patterns within the subclades, the abundance and diversity of Pelagibacteraceae were analyzed over a two-year period at four stations across an estuarine gradient. Pelagibacteraceae was the most abundant bacterial family, averaging 27% of the community, but varying from 1% to 57% in any one sample. Highest abundances were detected in autumn and winter. Pelagibacteraceae richness was lowest at the most inshore site, and highest in autumn and winter at all sites. Shannon diversity decreased in winter, when a few OTUs dominated the community. Dissolved oxygen, dissolved silicate and prokaryote abundance explained most of the variability in the Pelagibacteraceae communities, with salinity differentiating low salinity communities. The 10 most abundant OTUs included OTUs that varied across sites, with little seasonality as well as those with small site effects, but strong seasonal patterns indicating differences in the niches of individual OTUs. While salinity was important in structuring low salinity communities, higher salinity communities appear to be responding to additional environmental parameters including oxygen, nutrients and other organisms.Closely related Pelagibacteraceae OTUs vary spatially and temporally across an estuary due to differences in salinity as well as oxygen, nutrients and the abundance of other organisms.Closely related Pelagibacteraceae OTUs vary spatially and temporally across an estuary due to differences in salinity as well as oxygen, nutrients and the abundance of other organisms.	2016	92	10.1093/femsec/fiw133
Hernandez-Roldan, JL; Dapporto, L; Dinca, V; Vicente, JC; Hornett, EA; Sichova, J; Lukhtanov, VA; Talavera, G; Vila, R	Integrative analyses unveil speciation linked to host plant shift in Spialia butterflies	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	Discovering cryptic species in well-studied areas and taxonomic groups can have profound implications in understanding eco-evolutionary processes and in nature conservation because such groups often involve research models and act as flagship taxa for nature management. In this study, we use an array of techniques to study the butterflies in the Spialia sertorius species group (Lepidoptera, Hesperiidae). The integration of genetic, chemical, cytogenetic, morphological, ecological and microbiological data indicates that the sertorius species complex includes at least five species that differentiated during the last three million years. As a result, we propose the restitution of the species status for two taxa often treated as subspecies, Spialia ali (Oberthur, 1881) stat. rest. and Spialia therapne (Rambur, 1832) stat. rest., and describe a new cryptic species Spialia rosae Hernandez-Roldan, Dapporto, Dinca, Vicente & Vila sp. nov. Spialia sertorius (Hoffmannsegg, 1804) and S. rosae are sympatric and synmorphic, but show constant differences in mitochondrial DNA, chemical profiles and ecology, suggesting that S. rosae represents a case of ecological speciation involving larval host plant and altitudinal shift, and apparently associated with Wolbachia infection. This study exemplifies how a multidisciplinary approach can reveal elusive cases of hidden diversity.	2016	25	10.1111/mec.13756
Chen, JY; Hu, MJ; Ma, HM; Wang, YS; Wang, ET; Zhou, ZF; Gu, J	Genetic diversity and distribution of bradyrhizobia nodulating peanut in acid-neutral soils in Guangdong Province	SYSTEMATIC AND APPLIED MICROBIOLOGY	To reveal the genetic diversity and geographic distribution of peanut (Arachis hypogaea L.) rhizobia in Guangdong Province, one of the main peanut producing regions in China, 216 bradyrhizobial isolates were trapped by peanut plants inoculated with soil samples (pH 4.7-7.4) collected from ten sites in Guangdong. Based on BOX-PCR fingerprinting analysis, 71 representative isolates were selected for sequence analyses of ribosomal IGS, recA, atpD and symbiotic gene nodA. As a result, 22 genospecies were detected in the peanut rhizobia, including eight minor groups or single strains corresponding to Bradyrhizobium diazoefficiens, B. japonicum, B. yuanmingense, B. arachidis, B. guangdongense, B. guangxiense, B. iriomotense and B. Iiaoningense, as well as 14 novel Bradyrhizobium genospecies covering the majority of isolates. Five symbiotic clusters were obtained based on the phylogenetic relationships of nodA genes, related to the soybean-nodulating or peanut-nodulating reference strains. Biogeographic patterns, which were mainly correlated with potassium content and pH, were detected in the peanut bradyrhizobial community in Guangdong Province. These findings enriched the diversity of peanut rhizobia, and added the K content as a special determinant for peanut rhizobial distribution in acid soils. (C) 2016 Published by Elsevier GmbH.	2016	39	10.1016/j.syapm.2016.06.002
Huang, R; Zhao, DY; Zeng, J; Shen, F; Cao, XY; Jiang, CL; Huang, F; Feng, JW; Yu, ZB; Wu, QLL	pH affects bacterial community composition in soils across the Huashan Watershed, China	CANADIAN JOURNAL OF MICROBIOLOGY	To investigate soil bacterial richness and diversity and to determine the correlations between bacterial communities and soil properties, 8 soil samples were collected from the Huashan watershed in Anhui, China. Subsequently, 454 high-throughput pyrosequencing and bioinformatics analyses were performed to examine the soil bacterial community compositions. The operational taxonomic unit richness of the bacterial community ranged from 3664 to 5899, and the diversity indices, including Chao1, Shannon-Wiener, and Faiths phylogenetic diversity ranged from 7751 to 15 204, 7.386 to 8.327, and 415.77 to 679.11, respectively. The 2 most dominant phyla in the soil samples were Actinobacteria and Proteobacteria. The richness and diversity of the bacterial community were positively correlated with soil pH. The Mantel test revealed that the soil pH was the dominant factor influencing the bacterial community. The positive modular structure of co-occurrence patterns at the genus level was discovered by network analysis. The results obtained in this study provide useful information that enhances our understanding of the effects of soil properties on the bacterial communities.	2016	62	10.1139/cjm-2015-0783
Vannette, RL; Leopold, DR; Fukami, T	Forest area and connectivity influence root-associated fungal communities in a fragmented landscape	ECOLOGY	Habitat fragmentation is well known to affect plant and animal diversity as a result of reduced habitat area and connectivity, but its effects on microorganisms are poorly understood. Using high-throughput sequencing of two regions of the rRNA gene, we studied the effects of forest area and connectivity on the diversity and composition of fungi associated with the roots of the dominant tree, Metrosideros polymorpha, in a lava-fragmented landscape on the Island of Hawaii. We found that local fungal diversity increased with forest area, whereas fungal species composition was correlated with fragment connectivity. Fragment size and connectivity were significant predictors even when we included environmental covariates, which were also associated with fungal diversity and composition. Fungal species composition was more similar among highly connected fragments than among poorly connected ones. We also identified individual taxa that varied in abundance with connectivity. Taken together, our results show that habitat fragmentation can alter microbial diversity and composition via differential response among fungal phyla and individual taxa to habitat connectivity.	2016	97	10.1002/ecy.1472
Qin, YM; Man, BY; Kosakyan, A; Lara, E; Gu, YS; Wang, HM; Mitchell, EAD	Nebela jiuhuensis nov sp (Amoebozoa; Arcellinida; Hyalospheniidae): A New Member of the Nebela saccifera - equicalceus - ansata Group Described from Sphagnum Peatlands in South-Central China	JOURNAL OF EUKARYOTIC MICROBIOLOGY	Hyalospheniids are among the most common and conspicuous testate amoebae in high-latitude peatlands and forest humus. These testate amoebae were widely studied as bioindicators and are increasingly used as models in microbial biogeography. However, data on their diversity and ecology are still very unevenly distributed geographically: notably, data are lacking for low-latitude peatlands. We describe here a new species, Nebela jiuhuensis, from peatlands near the Middle Yangtze River reach of south-central China with characteristic morphology. The test ( shell) has hollow horn-like lateral extensions also found in N. saccifera, N. equicalceus (= N. hippocrepis), and N. ansata, three large species restricted mostly to Sphagnum peatlands of Eastern North America. Mitochondrial cytochrome oxidase ( COI) data confirm that N. jiuhuensis is closely related to the morphologically very similar North American species N. saccifera and more distantly to N. ansata within the N. penardiana group. These species are all found in wet mosses growing in poor fens. Earlier reports of morphologically similar specimens found in South Korea peatlands suggest that N. jiuhuensis may be distributed in comparable peatlands in Eastern Asia ( China and Korea). The discovery of such a conspicuous new species in Chinese peatlands suggests that many new testate amoebae species are yet to be discovered, including potential regional endemics. Furthermore, human activities ( e. g., drainage, agriculture, and pollution) have reduced the known habitat of N. jiuhuensis, which can thus be considered as locally endangered. We, therefore, suggest that this very conspicuous micro-organism with a probably limited geographical distribution and specific habitat requirement should be considered as a flagship species for microbial biogeography as well as local environmental conservation and management.	2016	63	10.1111/jeu.12300
Lemaire, B; Chimphango, SBM; Stirton, C; Rafudeen, S; Honnay, O; Smets, E; Chen, WM; Sprent, J; James, EK; Muasya, AM	Biogeographical Patterns of Legume-Nodulating Burkholderia spp.: from African Fynbos to Continental Scales	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Rhizobia of the genus Burkholderia have large-scale distribution ranges and are usually associated with South African papilionoid and South American mimosoid legumes, yet little is known about their genetic structuring at either local or global geographic scales. To understand variation at different spatial scales, from individual legumes in the fynbos (South Africa) to a global context, we analyzed chromosomal (16S rRNA, recA) and symbiosis (nifH, nodA, nodC) gene sequences. We showed that the global diversity of nodulation genes is generally grouped according to the South African papilionoid or South American mimosoid subfamilies, whereas chromosomal sequence data were unrelated to biogeography. While nodulation genes are structured on a continental scale, a geographic or host-specific distribution pattern was not detected in the fynbos region. In host range experiments, symbiotic promiscuity of Burkholderia tuberum STM678(T) and B. phymatum STM815(T) was discovered in selected fynbos species. Finally, a greenhouse experiment was undertaken to assess the ability of mimosoid (Mimosa pudica) and papilionoid (Dipogon lignosus, Indigofera filifolia, Macroptilium atropurpureum, and Podalyria calyptrata) species to nodulate in South African (fynbos) and Malawian (savanna) soils. While the Burkholderia-philous fynbos legumes (D. lignosus, I. filifolia, and P. calyptrata) nodulated only in their native soils, the invasive neotropical species M. pudica did not develop nodules in the African soils. The fynbos soil, notably rich in Burkholderia, seems to retain nodulation genes compatible with the local papilionoid legume flora but is incapable of nodulating mimosoid legumes that have their center of diversity in South America. IMPORTANCE This study is the most comprehensive phylogenetic assessment of root-nodulating Burkholderia and investigated biogeographic and host-related patterns of the legume-rhizobial symbiosis in the South African fynbos biome, as well as at global scales, including native species from the South American Caatinga and Cerrado biomes. While a global investigation of the rhizobial diversity revealed distinct nodulation and nitrogen fixation genes among South African and South American legumes, regionally distributed species in the Cape region were unrelated to geographic and host factors.	2016	82	10.1128/AEM.00591-16
Lima, MS; Marques, DD; They, NH; McMahon, KD; Rodrigues, LR; Cardoso, LD; Crossetti, LO	Contrasting factors drive within-lake bacterial community composition and functional traits in a large shallow subtropical lake	HYDROBIOLOGIA	Lakes are considered as islands for assessing microbial biogeography, but bacterial community composition (BCC) and function may vary significantly within lakes, with the roles of scale and connectivity still unclear. This study investigated the spatial and temporal heterogeneity of the BCC (automated ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis) and functional traits (FT, carbon-source utilization), and the contribution of: (i) environmental variables, (ii) phytoplankton, (iii) season, and (iv) space, through variance partitioning in the large and well-mixed Lake Mangueira. The BCC and FT differed in time and space, with BCC being explained by environmental variables and phytoplankton, whereas FT was explained only by space. The smallest scale of variability detected by the BCC and FT (similar to 49 km) was larger than scales found in the other studies, suggesting an effect of lake size (fetch and connectivity). Our results indicate that barriers to bacterial dispersal due to long distances are overcome by high connectivity, reinforcing the role of species sorting for BCC. FT were probably driven by gene dispersal and/or the effects of local conditions on migrant bacterial taxa and resuspended bacteria. Our results highlight the role of within-lake heterogeneity for ecosystem functioning and the implications for the appropriate scale to use in sampling bacterial communities.	2016	778	10.1007/s10750-015-2610-9
Ma, JC; Ibekwe, AM; Yang, CH; Crowley, DE	Bacterial diversity and composition in major fresh produce growing soils affected by physiochemical properties and geographic locations	SCIENCE OF THE TOTAL ENVIRONMENT	Microbial diversity of agricultural soils has been well documented, but information on leafy green producing soils is limited. In this study, we investigated microbial diversity and community structures in 32 (16 organic, 16 conventionally managed soils) from California (CA) and Arizona (AZ) using pyrosequencing, and identified factors affecting bacterial composition. Results of detrended correspondence analysis (DCA) and dissimilarity analysis showed that bacterial community structures of conventionally managed soils were similar to that of organically managed soils; while the bacterial community structures in soils from Salinas, California were different (P < 0.05) from those in soils from Yuma, Arizona and Imperial Valley, California. Canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) and artificial neural network (ANN) analysis of bacterial community structures and soil variables showed that electrical conductivity (EC), clay content, water-holding capacity (WHC), pH, total nitrogen (TN), and organic carbon (OC) significantly (P < 0.05) correlated with microbial communities. CCA based variation partitioning analysis (VPA) showed that soil physical properties (clay, EC, and WHC), soil chemical variables (pH, TN, and OC) and sampling location explained 16.3%, 12.5%, and 50.9%, respectively, of total variations in bacterial community structure, leaving 13% of the total variation unexplained. Our current study showed that bacterial community composition and diversity in major fresh produce growing soils from California and Arizona is a function of soil physiochemical characteristics and geographic distances of sampling sites. Published by Elsevier B.V.	2016	563	10.1016/j.scitotenv.2016.04.122
Chen, P; Zhang, LM; Guo, XX; Dai, X; Liu, L; Xi, LJ; Wang, J; Song, L; Wang, YZ; Zhu, YX; Huang, L; Huang, Y	Diversity, Biogeography, and Biodegradation Potential of Actinobacteria in the Deep-Sea Sediments along the Southwest Indian Ridge	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	The phylum Actinobacteria has been reported to be common or even abundant in deep marine sediments, however, knowledge about the diversity, distribution, and function of actinobacteria is limited. In this study, actinobacterial diversity in the deep sea along the Southwest Indian Ridge (SWIR) was investigated using both 16S rRNA gene pyrosequencing and culture-based methods. The samples were collected at depths of 1662-4000 m below water surface. Actinobacterial sequences represented 1.2-9.1% of all microbial 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequences in each sample. A total of 5 actinobacterial classes, 17 orders, 28 families, and 52 genera were detected by pyrosequencing, dominated by the classes Acidimicrobiia and Actinobacteria. Differences in actinobacterial community compositions were found among the samples. The community structure showed significant correlations to geochemical factors, notably pH, calcium, total organic carbon, total phosphorus, and total nitrogen, rather than to spatial distance at the scale of the investigation. In addition, 176 strains of the Actinobacteria class, belonging to 9 known orders, 18 families, and 29 genera, were isolated. Among these cultivated taxa, 8 orders, 13 families, and 15 genera were also recovered by pyrosequencing. At a 97% 16S rRNA gene sequence similarity, the pyrosequencing data encompassed 77.3% of the isolates but the isolates represented only 10.3% of the actinobacterial reads. Phylogenetic analysis of all the representative actinobacterial sequences and isolates indicated that at least four new orders within the phylum Actinobacteria were detected by pyrosequencing. More than half of the isolates spanning 23 genera and all samples demonstrated activity in the degradation of refractory organics, including polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons and polysaccharides, suggesting their potential ecological functions and biotechnological applications for carbon recycling.	2016	7	10.3389/fmicb.2016.01340
Li, LW; Ma, ZS	Testing the Neutral Theory of Biodiversity with Human Microbiome Datasets	SCIENTIFIC REPORTS	The human microbiome project (HMP) has made it possible to test important ecological theories for arguably the most important ecosystem to human health-the human microbiome. Existing limited number of studies have reported conflicting evidence in the case of the neutral theory; the present study aims to comprehensively test the neutral theory with extensive HMP datasets covering all five major body sites inhabited by the human microbiome. Utilizing 7437 datasets of bacterial community samples, we discovered that only 49 communities (less than 1%) satisfied the neutral theory, and concluded that human microbial communities are not neutral in general. The 49 positive cases, although only a tiny minority, do demonstrate the existence of neutral processes. We realize that the traditional doctrine of microbial biogeography Everything is everywhere, but the environment selects first proposed by Baas-Becking resolves the apparent contradiction. The first part of Baas-Becking doctrine states that microbes are not dispersal-limited and therefore are neutral prone, and the second part reiterates that the freely dispersed microbes must endure selection by the environment. Therefore, in most cases, it is the host environment that ultimately shapes the community assembly and tip the human microbiome to niche regime.	2016	6	10.1038/srep31448
Jiang, R; Wang, JX; Huang, B; Yu, KC; Zhang, P; Zheng, JW; Liu, XZ	Phylogenetic analysis of bacterial community composition in sediments with organic contaminants from the Jiaojiang estuary in China	MARINE POLLUTION BULLETIN	The aim of this study was to investigate the bacterial community composition, the concentration of organic contaminants, and their relationship in the sediments of Jiaojiang estuary. Sediments were collected from seven stations and the environmental parameters were analyzed. The results showed that the site closest to the chemical industry zone was the most polluted. Bacterial communities were determined using 16S rRNA clone libraries and phylogenetic analysis. These results revealed that there were 13 known bacterial phyla in the sediments and that Proteobacteria were the dominant group. Using these data, we assessed the correlation between bacterial communities and organic contaminants using cluster, multidimensional scaling, and redundancy analyses. These showed that there was no simple relationship between organic contaminants and bacterial community diversity in the sediments, but polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons were more influential than the other pollutants and negatively affected Chloroflexi. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2016	109	10.1016/j.marpolbul.2016.03.046
Felix, C; Duarte, AS; Vitorino, R; Guerreiro, ACL; Domingues, P; Correia, ACM; Alves, A; Esteves, AC	Temperature Modulates the Secretome of the Phytopathogenic Fungus Lasiodiplodia theobromae	Frontiers in Plant Science	Environmental alterations modulate host-microorganism interactions. Little is known about how climate changes can trigger pathogenic features on symbiont or mutualistic microorganisms. Current climate models predict increased environmental temperatures. The exposing of phytopathogens to these changing conditions can have particularly relevant consequences for economically important species and for humans. The impact on pathogen/host interaction and the shift on their biogeographical range can induce different levels of virulence in new hosts, allowing massive losses in agricultural and health fields. Lasiodiplodia theobromae is a phytopathogenic fungus responsible for a number of diseases in various plants. It has also been described as an opportunist pathogen in humans, causing infections with different levels of severity. L. theobromae has a high capacity of adaptation to different environments, such as woody plants, moist argillaceous soils, or even humans, being able to grow and infect hosts in a wide range of temperatures (9-39 degrees C). Nonetheless, the effect of an increase of temperature, as predicted in climate change models, on L. theobromae is unknown. Here we explore the effect of temperature on two strains of L. theobrornae - an environmental strain. CAA019, and a clinical strain, CBS339.90. We show that both strains are cytotoxic to mammalian cells but while the environmental strain is cytotoxic mainly at 25 degrees C, the clinical strain is cytotoxic mainly at 30 and 37 degrees C. Extracellular gelatinolytic, xylanolytic, amylolytic, and cellulolytic activities at 25 and 37 degrees C were characterized by zymography and the secretome of both strains grown at 25, 30, and 37 degrees C were characterized by electrophoresis and by Orbitrap LC-MS/MS. More than 75% of the proteins were identified, mostly enzymes (glycosyl hydrolases and proteases). The strains showed different protein profiles, which were affected by growth temperature. Also, strain specific proteins were identified, such as a putative f5/8 type c domain protein known for being involved in pathogenesis - by strain CAA019 and a putative tripeptidyl-peptidase 1 protein, by strain CBS339.90. We showed that temperature modulates the secretome of L. theobromae. This modulation may be associated with host-specificity requirements. We show that the study of abiotic factors, such as temperature, is crucial to understand host/pathogen interactions and its impact on disease.	2016	7	10.3389/fpls.2016.01096
del Monaco, SM; Rodriguez, ME; Lopes, CA	Pichia kudriavzevii as a representative yeast of North Patagonian winemaking terroir	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF FOOD MICROBIOLOGY	Terroir concept includes specific soil, topography, climate, landscape characteristics and biodiversity features. In reference to the last aspect, recent studies investigating the microbial biogeography (lately called microbial terroir) have revealed that different wine-growing regions maintain different microbial communities. The aim of the present work was to identify potential autochthonous fermentative yeasts isolated from native plants in North Patagonia, Schinus johnstonii, Ephedra ochreata and Lycium chilense, that could be associated to the specific vitivinicultural terroir of this region. Different Pichia kudriavzevii isolates were recovered from these plants and physiologically and genetically compared to regional wine isolates and foreign reference strains of the same species. All isolates were subjected to molecular characterization including mtDNA-RFLP, RAPD-PCR and sequence analysis. Both wine and native P. kudriavzevii isolates from Patagonia showed similar features, different from those showed by foreign strains, suggesting that this species could be part of a specific regional terroir from North Patagonia. (C) 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2016	230	10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2016.04.017
Glynou, K; Ali, T; Buch, AK; Kia, SH; Ploch, S; Xia, XJ; Celik, A; Thines, M; Macia-Vicente, JG	The local environment determines the assembly of root endophytic fungi at a continental scale	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Root endophytic fungi are found in a great variety of plants and ecosystems, but the ecological drivers of their biogeographic distribution are poorly understood. Here, we investigate the occurrence of root endophytes in the non-mycorrhizal plant genus Microthlaspi, and the effect of environmental factors and geographic distance in structuring their communities at a continental scale. We sampled 52 plant populations across the northern Mediterranean and central Europe and used a cultivation approach to study their endophytic communities. Cultivation of roots yielded 2601 isolates, which were grouped into 296 operational taxonomic units (OTUs) by internal transcribed spacer sequencing of 1998 representative colonies. Climatic and spatial factors were the best descriptors of the structure of endophytic communities, outweighing soil characteristics, host genotype and geographical distance. OTU richness was negatively affected by precipitation, and the composition of communities followed latitudinal gradients of precipitation and temperature. Only six widespread OTUs belonging to the orders Pleosporales, Hypocreales and Helotiales represented about 50% of all isolates. Assessments of their individual distribution revealed particular ecological preferences or a cosmopolitan occurrence. Our findings support a strong influence of the local environment in determining root endophytic communities, and show a different niche occupancy by individual endophytes.	2016	18	10.1111/1462-2920.13112
El Khawand, M; Crombie, AT; Johnston, A; Vavlline, DV; McAuliffe, JC; Latone, JA; Primak, YA; Lee, SK; Whited, GM; McGenity, TJ; Murrell, JC	Isolation of isoprene degrading bacteria from soils, development of isoA gene probes and identification of the active isoprene-degrading soil community using DNA-stable isotope probing	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Emissions of biogenic volatile organic compounds (bVOCs), are an important element in the global carbon cycle, accounting for a significant proportion of fixed carbon. They contribute directly and indirectly to global warming and climate change and have a major effect on atmospheric chemistry. Plants emit isoprene to the atmosphere in similar quantities to emissions of methane from all sources and each accounts for approximately one third of total VOCs. Although methanotrophs, capable of growth on methane, have been intensively studied, we know little of isoprene biodegradation. Here, we report the isolation of two isoprene-degrading strains from the terrestrial environment and describe the design and testing of polymerase chain reaction (PCR) primers targeting isoA, the gene encoding the active-site component of the conserved isoprene monooxygenase, which are capable of retrieving isoA sequences from isoprene-enriched environmental samples. Stable isotope probing experiments, using biosynthesized C-13-labelled isoprene, identified the active isoprene-degrading bacteria in soil. This study identifies novel isoprene-degrading strains using both culture-dependent and, for the first time, culture-independent methods and provides the tools and foundations for continued investigation of the biogeography and molecular ecology of isoprene-degrading bacteria.	2016	18	10.1111/1462-2920.13345
Hodac, L; Hallmann, C; Spitzer, K; Elster, J; Fasshauer, F; Brinkmann, N; Lepka, D; Diwan, V; Friedl, T	Widespread green algae Chlorella and Stichococcus exhibit polar-temperate and tropical-temperate biogeography	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Chlorella and Stichococcus are morphologically simple airborne microalgae, omnipresent in terrestrial and aquatic habitats. The minute cell size and resistance against environmental stress facilitate their long-distance dispersal. However, the actual distribution of Chlorella- and Stichococcus-like species has so far been inferred only from ambiguous morphology-based evidence. Here we contribute a phylogenetic analysis of an expanded SSU and ITS2 rDNA sequence dataset representing Chlorella- and Stichococcus-like species from terrestrial habitats of polar, temperate and tropical regions. We aim to uncover biogeographical patterns at low taxonomic levels. We found that psychrotolerant strains of Chlorella and Stichococcus are closely related with strains originating from the temperate zone. Species closely related to Chlorella vulgaris and Muriella terrestris, and recovered from extreme terrestrial environments of polar regions and hot deserts, are particularly widespread. Stichococcus strains from the temperate zone, with their closest relatives in the tropics, differ from strains with the closest relatives being from the polar regions. Our data suggest that terrestrial Chlorella and Stichococcus might be capable of intercontinental dispersal; however, their actual distributions exhibit biogeographical patterns.Airborne unicellular microalgae are considered to have cosmopolitan distribution; however, molecular comparisons of Chlorella- and Stichococcus-like species recognized lineages with either temperate-polar or temperate-tropical distribution patterns.Airborne unicellular microalgae are considered to have cosmopolitan distribution; however, molecular comparisons of Chlorella- and Stichococcus-like species recognized lineages with either temperate-polar or temperate-tropical distribution patterns.	2016	92	10.1093/femsec/fiw122
Salerno, JL; Bowen, BW; Rappe, MS	Biogeography of planktonic and coral-associated microorganisms across the Hawaiian Archipelago	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Factors driving the distribution of marine microorganisms are widely debated and poorly understood. Recent studies show that free-living marine microbes exhibit geographical patterns indicative of limited dispersal. In contrast, host-associated microbes face a different set of dispersal challenges, and hosts may function as habitat islands for resident microbial populations. Here, we examine the biogeographical distributions of planktonic and adjacent coral-associated bacterial communities across the Hawaiian Archipelago, Johnston Atoll (similar to 1400 km southwest of Hawaii) and American Samoa in the Pacific Ocean and investigate the potential underlying processes driving observed patterns. Statistical analyses of bacterial community structure, determined using a small-subunit ribosomal RNA gene-based approach, showed that bacterioplankton and coral-associated bacterial communities were distinct, and correlated with geographical distance between sites. In addition, biogeographical patterns of bacterial associates paralleled those of their host coral Porites lobata, highlighting the specificity of these associations and the impact that host dispersal may have on bacterial biogeography. Planktonic and coral-associated bacterial communities from distant Johnston Atoll were shown to be connected with communities from the center of the Hawaiian Archipelago, a pattern previously observed in fish and invertebrates. No significant correlations were detected with habitat type, temperature or depth. However, non-distance-based geographical groupings were detected, indicating that, in addition to dispersal, unidentified environmental factors also affected the distributions of bacterial communities investigated here.The biogeographical distribution of bacterial communities associated with Porites lobata corals in Hawaii is influenced by geographical distance and environmental factors and parallels the host distribution.The biogeographical distribution of bacterial communities associated with Porites lobata corals in Hawaii is influenced by geographical distance and environmental factors and parallels the host distribution.	2016	92	10.1093/femsec/fiw109
Gokul, JK; Hodson, AJ; Saetnan, ER; Irvine-Fynn, TDL; Westall, PJ; Detheridge, AP; Takeuchi, N; Bussell, J; Mur, LAJ; Edwards, A	Taxon interactions control the distributions of cryoconite bacteria colonizing a High Arctic ice cap	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	Microbial colonization of glacial ice surfaces incurs feedbacks which affect the melting rate of the ice surface. Ecosystems formed as microbe-mineral aggregates termed cryoconite locally reduce ice surface albedo and represent foci of biodiversity and biogeochemical cycling. Consequently, greater understanding the ecological processes in the formation of functional cryoconite ecosystems upon glacier surfaces is sought. Here, we present the first bacterial biogeography of an ice cap, evaluating the respective roles of dispersal, environmental and biotic filtration occurring at local scales in the assembly of cryoconite microbiota. 16S rRNA gene amplicon semiconductor sequencing of cryoconite colonizing a Svalbard ice cap coupled with digital elevation modelling of physical parameters reveals the bacterial community is dominated by a ubiquitous core of generalist taxa, with evidence for a moderate pairwise distance-decay relationship. While geographic position and melt season duration are prominent among environmental predictors of community structure, the core population of taxa appears highly influential in structuring the bacterial community. Taxon co-occurrence network analysis reveals a highly modular community structured by positive interactions with bottleneck taxa, predominantly Actinobacteria affiliated to isolates from soil humus. In contrast, the filamentous cyanobacterial taxon (assigned to Leptolyngbya/Phormidesmis pristleyi) which dominates the community and binds together granular cryoconite are poorly connected to other taxa. While our study targeted one ice cap, the prominent role of generalist core taxa with close environmental relatives across the global cryosphere indicate discrete roles for cosmopolitan Actinobacteria and Cyanobacteria as respective keystone taxa and ecosystem engineers of cryoconite ecosystems colonizing ice caps.	2016	25	10.1111/mec.13715
Hughes, KA; Pertierra, LR	Evaluation of non-native species policy development and implementation within the Antarctic Treaty area	BIOLOGICAL CONSERVATION	Antarctic non-native species legislation is contained within the Protocol on Environmental Protection to the Antarctic Treaty, with 2016 marking the 25th anniversary of its adoption. We take this opportunity to evaluate the Antarctic Treaty signatory Parties collective development and implementation of non-native species policy. In general, scientific and policy outputs have increased in the past decade. However, data detailing Parties current implementation of biosecurity practices are not readily available. Little widespread, internationally coordinated or systematic monitoring of non-native species establishment has occurred, but available data suggest that establishment of non-native micro-invertebrates may be greatly underestimated. Several recent small-scale plant eradications have been successful, although larger-scale eradications present a greater challenge due to seed bank formation. Invertebrate establishment within research station buildings presents an increasing problem, with mixed eradication success to date. The opportunity now exists to build on earlier successes, such as the CEP Non-native Species Manual, towards the development of a comprehensive response strategy based upon the principles of prevention, monitoring and response, and applicable to all Antarctic environments. To help facilitate this we identify areas requiring further research and policy development, such as to reduce anthropogenic transfer of indigenous Antarctic species between distinct biogeographic regions, avoid microbial contamination of pristine areas and limit introduction of non-native marine species. A response protocol is proposed for use following the discovery of a potential non-native species within the Antarctica Treaty area, which includes recommendations concerning Parties initial response and any subsequent eradication or control measures. (C) 2016 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.	2016	200	10.1016/j.biocon.2016.03.011
Grattepanche, JD; Santoferrara, LF; McManus, GB; Katzt, LA	Unexpected biodiversity of ciliates in marine samples from below the photic zone	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	Marine microbial eukaryotes play critical roles in planktonic food webs and have been described as most diverse in the photic zone where productivity is high. We used high-throughput sequencing (HTS) to analyse the spatial distribution of planktonic ciliate diversity from shallow waters (<30 m depth) to beyond the continental shelf (>800 m depth) along a 163 km transect off the coast of New England, USA. We focus on ciliates in the subclasses Oligotrichia and Choreotrichia (class Spirotrichea), as these taxa are major components of marine food webs. We did not observe the decrease of diversity below the photic zone expected based on productivity and previous analyses. Instead, we saw an increase of diversity with depth. We also observed that the ciliate communities assessed by HTS cluster by depth layer and degree of water column stratification, suggesting that community assembly is driven by environmental factors. Across our samples, abundant OTUs tend to match previously characterized morphospecies while rare OTUs are more often undescribed, consistent with the idea that species in the rare biosphere remain to be characterized by microscopy. Finally, samples taken below the photic zone also reveal the prevalence of two uncharacterized (i.e. lacking sequenced morphospecies) clades - clusters X-1 and X-2 - that are enriched within the nano-sized fraction (2-10 mu m) and are defined by deletions within the region of the SSU-rDNA analysed here. Together, these data reinforce that we still have much to learn about microbial diversity in marine ecosystems, especially in deep-waters that may be a reservoir for rare species and uncharacterized taxa.	2016	25	10.1111/mec.13745
Pavloudi, C; Oulas, A; Vasileiadou, K; Sarropoulou, E; Kotoulas, G; Arvanitidis, C	Salinity is the major factor influencing the sediment bacterial communities in a Mediterranean lagoonal complex (Amvrakikos Gulf, Ionian Sea)	MARINE GENOMICS	Lagoons are naturally-enriched habitats, with unstable environmental conditions caused by their confinement, shallow depth and state of saprobity. The frequent fluctuations of the abiotic variables cause severe changes in the abundance and distribution of biota. This relationship has been studied extensively for the macrofaunal communities, but not sufficiently so for the bacterial ones. The aim of the present study was to explore the biodiversity patterns of bacterial assemblages and to examine whether these patterns are associated with biogeographic and environmental factors. For this purpose, sediment samples were collected from five lagoons located in the Amvrakikos Gulf (Ionian Sea, Western Greece). DNA was extracted from the sediment and was further processed through 16S rRNA pyrosequencing. The results of this exploratory study imply that salinity is the environmental factor best correlated with the bacterial community pattern, which has also been suggested in similar studies but for macrofaunal community patterns. In addition, the bacterial community of the brackish lagoons is differentiated from that of the brackish marine lagoons. The findings of this study indicate that the studied lagoons have distinct bacterial communities. (C) 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2016	28	10.1016/j.margen.2016.01.005
Delgado-Baquerizo, M; Maestre, FT; Reich, PB; Trivedi, P; Osanai, Y; Liu, YR; Hamonts, K; Jeffries, TC; Singh, BK	Carbon content and climate variability drive global soil bacterial diversity patterns	ECOLOGICAL MONOGRAPHS	Despite the vital role of microorganisms for ecosystem functioning and human welfare, our understanding of their global diversity and biogeographical patterns lags significantly behind that of plants and animals. We conducted a meta-analysis including similar to 600 soil samples from all continents to evaluate the biogeographical patterns and drivers of bacterial diversity in terrestrial ecosystems at the global scale. Similar to what has been found with plants and animals, the diversity of soil bacteria in the Southern Hemisphere decreased from the equator to Antarctica. However, soil bacteria showed similar levels of diversity across the Northern Hemisphere. The composition of bacterial communities followed dissimilar patterns between hemispheres, as the Southern and Northern Hemispheres were dominated by Actinobacteria and Acidobacteria, respectively. However, Proteobacteria was co-dominant in both hemispheres. Moreover, we found a decrease in soil bacterial diversity with altitude. Climatic features (e.g., high diurnal temperature range and low temperature) were correlated with the lower diversity found at high elevations, but geographical gradients in soil total carbon and species turnover were important drivers of the observed latitudinal patterns. We thus found both parallels and differences in the biogeographical patterns of aboveground vs. soil bacterial diversity. Our findings support previous studies that highlighted soil pH, spatial influence, and organic matter as important drivers of bacterial diversity and composition. Furthermore, our results provide a novel integrative view of how climate and soil factors influence soil bacterial diversity at the global scale, which is critical to improve ecosystem and earth system simulation models and for formulating sustainable ecosystem management and conservation policies.	2016	86	10.1002/ecm.1216/suppinfo
Kent, AG; Dupont, CL; Yooseph, S; Martiny, AC	Global biogeography of Prochlorococcus genome diversity in the surface ocean	ISME JOURNAL	Prochlorococcus, the smallest known photosynthetic bacterium, is abundant in the oceans surface layer despite large variation in environmental conditions. There are several genetically divergent lineages within Prochlorococcus and superimposed on this phylogenetic diversity is extensive gene gain and loss. The environmental role in shaping the global ocean distribution of genome diversity in Prochlorococcus is largely unknown, particularly in a framework that considers the vertical and lateral mechanisms of evolution. Here we show that Prochlorococcus field populations from a global circumnavigation harbor extensive genome diversity across the surface ocean, but this diversity is not randomly distributed. We observed a significant correspondence between phylogenetic and gene content diversity, including regional differences in both phylogenetic composition and gene content that were related to environmental factors. Several gene families were strongly associated with specific regions and environmental factors, including the identification of a set of genes related to lower nutrient and temperature regions. Metagenomic assemblies of natural Prochlorococcus genomes reinforced this association by providing linkage of genes across genomic backbones. Overall, our results show that the phylogeography in Prochlorococcus taxonomy is echoed in its genome content. Thus environmental variation shapes the functional capabilities and associated ecosystem role of the globally abundant Prochlorococcus.	2016	10	10.1038/ismej.2015.265
Ma, B; Wang, HZ; Dsouza, M; Lou, J; He, Y; Dai, ZM; Brookes, PC; Xu, JM; Gilbert, JA	Geographic patterns of co-occurrence network topological features for soil microbiota at continental scale in eastern China	ISME JOURNAL	Soil microbiota play a critical role in soil biogeochemical processes and have a profound effect on soil functions. Recent studies have revealed microbial co-occurrence patterns in soil microbial communities, yet the geographic pattern of topological features in soil microbial co-occurrence networks at the continental scale are largely unknown. Here, we investigated the shifts of topological features in co-occurrence networks inferred from soil microbiota along a continental scale in eastern China. Integrating archaeal, bacterial and fungal community datasets, we inferred a meta-community co-occurrence network and analyzed node-level and network-level topological shifts associated with five climatic regions. Both node-level and network-level topological features revealed geographic patterns wherein microorganisms in the northern regions had closer relationships but had a lower interaction influence than those in the southern regions. We further identified topological differences associated with taxonomic groups and demonstrated that co-occurrence patterns were random for archaea and non-random for bacteria and fungi. Given that microbial interactions may contribute to soil functions more than species diversity, this geographic shift of topological features provides new insight into studying microbial biogeographic patterns, their organization and impacts on soil-associated function.	2016	10	10.1038/ismej.2015.261
Wang, XH; Wen, XH; Deng, Y; Xia, Y; Yang, YF; Zhou, JZ	Distance-Decay Relationship for Biological Wastewater Treatment Plants	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Patterns in the spatial distribution of organisms provide important information about mechanisms underlying biodiversity and the complexity of ecosystems. One of the most well-documented spatial patterns is the distance-decay relationship, which is a universal biogeographic pattern observed repeatedly for plant and animal communities, particularly for microorganisms in natural ecosystems such as soil, ocean, and salt marsh sediment. However, it is uncertain whether the microorganisms exhibit a distance-decay pattern in engineered ecosystems. Therefore, we measured the distance-decay relationship across various microbial functional and phylogenetic groups in 26 biological wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs) in China using a functional gene array (GeoChip 4.2). We found that microbial communities of activated sludge in WWTPs exhibited a significant but very weak distance-decay relationship. The taxon-area z values for different functional and phylogenetic groups were <0.0065, which is about 1 to 2 orders of magnitude lower than those observed in microbial communities elsewhere. Variation-partitioning analysis (VPA) showed that the relationships were driven by both environmental heterogeneity and geographic distance. Collectively, these results provided new insights into the spatial scaling of microbial communities in engineering ecosystems and highlighted the importance of environmental heterogeneity and geographic distance in shaping biogeographic patterns. IMPORTANCE Determining the distance-decay relationship of microbial biodiversity is important but challenging in microbial ecology. All studies to date are based on natural environments; thus, it remains unclear whether there is such a relationship in an engineered ecosystem. The present study shows that there is a very weak distance-decay relationship in an engineered ecosystem (WWTPs) at the regional-to-continental scale. This study makes fundamental contributions to a mechanistic, predictive understanding of microbial biogeography.	2016	82	10.1128/AEM.01071-16
Tripp, EA; Lendemer, JC; Barberan, A; Dunn, RR; Fierer, N	Biodiversity gradients in obligate symbiotic organisms: exploring the diversity and traits of lichen propagules across the United States	JOURNAL OF BIOGEOGRAPHY	AimLarge-scale distributions of plants and animals have been studied extensively and form the foundation for core concepts and paradigms in biogeography and macroecology. Much less attention has been given to other groups of organisms, particularly obligate symbiotic organisms. We present the first quantitative assessment of how spatial and environmental variables shape the abundance and distribution of obligate symbiotic organisms across nearly an entire subcontinent, using lichen propagules as an example. LocationThe contiguous United States (excluding Alaska and Hawaii). MethodsWe use DNA sequence-based analyses of lichen reproductive propagules from settled dust samples collected from nearly 1300 home exteriors to reconstruct biogeographical correlates of lichen taxonomic and functional diversity. ResultsContrary to expectations, we found a weak but significant reverse latitudinal gradient in lichen propagule diversity. Diversity was not impacted by urbanization or human population density. We show that propagules of asexually reproducing species have wider geographical ranges than propagules from sexually reproducing species, likely reflecting the lichenized nature of asexual spores that disperse both the mycobiont and photobiont versus non-lichenized sexual spores, which disperse only the mycobiont. Main ConclusionsOur findings of a reverse latitudinal gradient and a relative lack of impact of urbanization on lichen propagules and/or lichen-forming fungal spores suggest that core concepts in biogeography are better informed via consideration of additional patterns from other, less well studied groups of organisms.	2016	43	10.1111/jbi.12746
Monier, A; Worden, AZ; Richards, TA	Phylogenetic diversity and biogeography of the Mamiellophyceae lineage of eukaryotic phytoplankton across the oceans	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY REPORTS	High-throughput diversity amplicon sequencing of marine microbial samples has revealed that members of the Mamiellophyceae lineage are successful phytoplankton in many oceanic habitats. Indeed, these eukaryotic green algae can dominate the picoplanktonic biomass, however, given the broad expanses of the oceans, their geographical distributions and the phylogenetic diversity of some groups remain poorly characterized. As these algae play a foundational role in marine food webs, it is crucial to assess their global distribution in order to better predict potential changes in abundance and community structure. To this end, we analyzed the V9-18S small subunit rDNA sequences deposited from the Tara Oceans expedition to evaluate the diversity and biogeography of these phytoplankton. Our results show that the phylogenetic composition of Mamiellophyceae communities is in part determined by geographical provenance, and do not appear to be influenced - in the samples recovered - by water depth, at least at the resolution possible with the V9-18S. Phylogenetic classification of Mamiellophyceae sequences revealed that the Dolichomastigales order encompasses more sequence diversity than other orders in this lineage. These results indicate that a large fraction of the Mamiellophyceae diversity has been hitherto overlooked, likely because of a combination of size fraction, sequencing and geographical limitations.	2016	8	10.1111/1758-2229.12390
Mo, HW; Zhao, YY	Motor Imagery Electroencephalograph Classification Based on Optimized Support Vector Machine by Magnetic Bacteria Optimization Algorithm	NEURAL PROCESSING LETTERS	In this paper, an optimized support vector machine (SVM) based on a new bio-inspired method called magnetic bacteria optimization algorithm method is proposed to construct a high performance classifier for motor imagery electroencephalograph based brain-computer interface (BCI). Butterworth band-pass filter and artifact removal technique are combined to extract the feature of frequency band of the ERD/ERS. Common spatial pattern is used to extract the feature vector which are put into the classifier later. The optimization mechanism involves kernel parameters setting in the SVM training procedure, which significantly influences the classification accuracy. Our novel approach aims to optimize the penalty factor parameter C and kernel parameter g of the SVM. The experimental results on the BCI Competition IV dataset II-a clearly present the effectiveness of the proposed method outperforming other competing methods in the literature such as genetic algorithm, particle swarm algorithm, artificial bee colony, biogeography based optimization.	2016	44	10.1007/s11063-015-9469-7
Shen, CC; Shi, Y; Ni, YY; Deng, Y; Van Nostrand, JD; He, ZL; Zhou, JZ; Chu, HY	Dramatic Increases of Soil Microbial Functional Gene Diversity at the Treeline Ecotone of Changbai Mountain	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	The elevational and latitudinal diversity patterns of microbial taxa have attracted great attention in the past decade. Recently, the distribution of functional attributes has been in the spotlight. Here, we report a study profiling soil microbial communities along an elevation gradient (500-2200 m) on Changbai Mountain. Using a comprehensive functional gene microarray (GeoChip 5.0), we found that microbial functional gene richness exhibited a dramatic increase at the treeline ecotone, but the bacterial taxonomic and phylogenetic diversity based on 16S rRNA gene sequencing did not exhibit such a similar trend. However, the beta-diversity (compositional dissimilarity among sites) pattern for both bacterial taxa and functional genes was similar, showing significant elevational distance-decay patterns which presented increased dissimilarity with elevation. The bacterial taxonomic diversity/structure was strongly influenced by soil pH, while the functional gene diversity/structure was significantly correlated with soil dissolved organic carbon (DOC). This finding highlights that soil DOC may be a good predictor in determining the elevational distribution of microbial functional genes. The finding of significant shifts in functional gene diversity at the treeline ecotone could also provide valuable information for predicting the responses of microbial functions to climate change.	2016	7	10.3389/fmicb.2016.01184
Zhou, HX; Dang, HY; Klotz, MG	Environmental Conditions Outweigh Geographical Contiguity in Determining the Similarity of nifH-Harboring Microbial Communities in Sediments of Two Disconnected Marginal Seas	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Ecological evidence suggests that heterotrophic diazotrophs fueled by organic carbon respiration in sediments play an important role in marine nitrogen fixation. However, fundamental knowledge about the identities, abundance, diversity, biogeography, and controlling environmental factors of nitrogen fixing communities in open ocean sediments is still elusive. Surprisingly, little is known also about nitrogen-fixing communities in sediments of the more research-accessible marginal seas. Here we report on an investigation of the environmental geochemistry and putative diazotrophic microbiota in the sediments of Bohai Sea, an eutrophic marginal sea of the western Pacific Ocean. Diverse and abundant nifH gene sequences were identified and sulfate-reducing bacteria (SRB) were found to be the dominant putative nitrogen-fixing microbes. Community statistical analyses suggested bottom water temperature, bottom water chlorophyll a content (or the covarying turbidity) and sediment porewater Eh (or the covarying pH) as the most significant environmental factors controlling the structure and spatial distribution of the putative diazotrophic communities, while sediment Hg content, sulfide content, and porewater SiO32--Si content were identified as the key environmental factors correlated positively with the nifH gene abundance in Bohai Sea sediments. Comparative analyses between the Bohai Sea and the northern South China Sea (nSCS) identified a significant composition difference of the putative diazotrophic communities in sediments between the shallow water (estuarine and nearshore) and deep-water (offshore and deep-sea) environments, and sediment porewater dissolved oxygen content, water depth and in situ temperature as the key environmental factors tentatively controlling the species composition, community structure, and spatial distribution of the marginal sea sediment nifH-harboring microbiota. This confirms the ecophysiological specialization and niche differentiation between the shallow-water and deep-water sediment diazotrophic communities and suggests that the in situ physical and geochemical conditions play a more important role than geographical contiguity in determining the community similarity of the diazotrophic microbiota in marginal sea sediments.	2016	7	10.3389/fmicb.2016.01111
Nelson, MB; Martiny, AC; Martiny, JBH	Global biogeography of microbial nitrogen-cycling traits in soil	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	Microorganisms drive much of the Earths nitrogen (N) cycle, but we still lack a global overview of the abundance and composition of the microorganisms carrying out soil N processes. To address this gap, we characterized the biogeography of microbial N traits, defined as eight N-cycling pathways, using publically available soil metagenomes. The relative frequency of N pathways varied consistently across soils, such that the frequencies of the individual N pathways were positively correlated across the soil samples. Habitat type, soil carbon, and soil N largely explained the total N pathway frequency in a sample. In contrast, we could not identify major drivers of the taxonomic composition of the N functional groups. Further, the dominant genera encoding a pathway were generally similar among habitat types. The soil samples also revealed an unexpectedly high frequency of bacteria carrying the pathways required for dissimilatory nitrate reduction to ammonium, a little-studied N process in soil. Finally, phylogenetic analysis showed that some microbial groups seem to be N-cycling specialists or generalists. For instance, taxa within the Deltaproteo bacteria encoded all eight N pathways, whereas those within the Cyanobacteria primarily encoded three pathways. Overall, this trait-based approach provides a baseline for investigating the relationship between microbial diversity and N cycling across global soils.	2016	113	10.1073/pnas.1601070113
Xia, ZW; Bai, E; Wang, QK; Gao, D; Zhou, JD; Jiang, P; Wu, JB	Biogeographic Distribution Patterns of Bacteria in Typical Chinese Forest Soils	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Microbes are widely distributed in soils and play a very important role in nutrient cycling and ecosystem services. To understand the biogeographic distribution of forest soil bacteria, we collected 115 soil samples in typical forest ecosystems across eastern China to investigate their bacterial community compositions using Illumina MiSeq high throughput sequencing based on 16S rRNA. We obtained 4,667,656 sequences totally and more than 70% of these sequences were classified into five dominant groups, i.e., Actinobactena, Acidobacteria, Alphaproteobacteria, Verrucomicrobia, and Planctomycetes (relative abundance >5%). The bacterial diversity showed a parabola shape along latitude and the maximum diversity appeared at latitudes between 33.50 degrees N and 40 degrees N, an area characterized by warm-temperate zones and moderate temperature, neutral soil pH and high substrate availability (soil C and N) from dominant deciduous broad-leaved forests. Pairwise dissimilarity matrix in bacterial community composition showed that bacterial community structure had regional similarity and the latitude of 30 degrees N could be used as the dividing line between southern and northern forest soils. Soil properties and climate conditions (MAT and MAP) greatly accounted for the differences in the soil bacterial structure. Among all soil parameters determined, soil pH predominantly affected the diversity and composition of the bacterial community, and soil pH = 5 probably could be used as a threshold below which soil bacterial diversity might decline and soil bacterial community structure might change significantly. Moreover, soil exchangeable cations, especially Ca2+ (ECa2+) and some other soil variables were also closely related to bacterial community structure. The selected environmental variables (21.11%) explained more of the bacterial community variation than geographic distance (15.88%), indicating that the edaphic properties and environmental factors played a more important role than geographic dispersal limitation in determining the bacterial community structure in Chinese forest soils.	2016	7	10.3389/fmicb.2016.01106
Ramadan, M; Solyman, S; Taha, M; Hanora, A	Preliminary characterization of human skin microbiome in healthy Egyptian individuals	CELLULAR AND MOLECULAR BIOLOGY	Human skin is a large, complex ecosystem that harbors diverse microbial communities. The rapid advances in molecular techniques facilitate the exploration of skin associated bacterial populations. The objective of this study was to perform a preliminary characterization of skin associated bacterial populations in Egyptian individuals. Samples were collected from five healthy subjects from two skin sites; Antecubital Fossa (AF) and Popliteal Fossa (PF). Genomic DNA was extracted and used to amplify bacterial 16S rRNA genes which were sequenced on Illumina MiSeq platform. The two sites showed distinct diversity where PF was more diverse than AF. Taxonomic analysis of sequences revealed four main phyla Proteobacteria, Firmicutes, Actinobacteria and Deinococcus-Thermus, with Proteobacteria presenting the highest diversity. Klebsiella, Bacillus, Pseudomonas and Escherichia were the most predominant genera. Our data suggest that environmental factors can shape the composition of the skin microbiome in certain geographical regions. This study presents a new insight for subsequent analyses of human microbiome in Egypt.	2016	62	10.14715/cmb/2016.62.8.4
Deng, CP; Yu, XJ; Yang, JS; Li, BZ; Sun, WL; Yuan, HL	Universal Indicators for Oil and Gas Prospecting Based on Bacterial Communities Shaped by Light-Hydrocarbon Microseepage in China	JOURNAL OF MICROBIOLOGY AND BIOTECHNOLOGY	Light hydrocarbons accumulated in subsurface soil by long-term microseepage could favor the anomalous growth of indigenous hydrocarbon-oxidizing microorganisms, which could be crucial indicators of underlying petroleum reservoirs. Here, Illumina MiSeq sequencing of the 16S rRNA gene was conducted to determine the bacterial community structures in soil samples collected from three typical oil and gas fields at different locations in China. Incubation with n-butane at the laboratory scale was performed to confirm the presence of universal microbes in light-hydrocarbon microseepage ecosystems. The results indicated significantly higher bacterial diversity in next-to-well samples compared with background samples at two of the three sites, which were notably different to oil-contaminated environments. Variation partitioning analysis showed that the bacterial community structures above the oil and gas fields at the scale of the present study were shaped mainly by environmental parameters, and geographic location was able to explain only 7.05% of the variation independently. The linear discriminant analysis effect size method revealed that the oil and gas fields significantly favored the growth of Mycobacterium, Flavobacterium, and Pseudomonas, as well as other related bacteria. The relative abundance of Mycobacterium and Pseudomonas increased notably after n-butane cultivation, which highlighted their potential as biomarkers of underlying oil deposits. This work contributes to a broader perspective on the bacterial community structures shaped by long-term light-hydrocarbon microseepage and proposes relatively universal indicators, providing an additional resource for the improvement of microbial prospecting of oil and gas.	2016	26	10.4014/jmb.1602.02045
Billerbeck, S; Wemheuer, B; Voget, S; Poehlein, A; Giebel, HA; Brinkhoff, T; Gram, L; Jeffrey, WH; Daniel, R; Simon, M	Biogeography and environmental genomics of the Roseobacter-affiliated pelagic CHAB-I-5 lineage	NATURE MICROBIOLOGY	The identification and functional characterization of microbial communities remains a prevailing topic in microbial oceanography as information on environmentally relevant pelagic prokaryotes is still limited. The Roseobacter group, an abundant lineage of marine Alphaproteobacteria, can constitute large proportions of the bacterioplankton. Roseobacters also occur associated with eukaryotic organisms and possess streamlined as well as larger genomes from 2.2 to >5 Mpb. Here, we show that one pelagic cluster of this group, CHAB-I-5, occurs globally from tropical to polar regions and accounts for up to 22% of the active North Sea bacterioplankton in the summer. The first sequenced genome of a CHAB-I-5 organism comprises 3.6 Mbp and exhibits features of an oligotrophic lifestyle. In a metatranscriptome of North Sea surface waters, 98% of the encoded genes were present, and genes encoding various ABC transporters, glutamate synthase and CO oxidation were particularly upregulated. Phylogenetic gene content analyses of 41 genomes of the Roseobacter group revealed a unique cluster of pelagic organisms distinct from other lineages of this group, highlighting the adaptation to life in nutrient-depleted environments.	2016	1	10.1038/NMICROBIOL.2016.63
Parain, EC; Gravel, D; Rohr, RP; Bersier, LF; Gray, SM	Mismatch in microbial food webs: predators but not prey perform better in their local biotic and abiotic conditions	ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION	Understanding how trophic levels respond to changes in abiotic and biotic conditions is key for predicting how food webs will react to environmental perturbations. Different trophic levels may respond disproportionately to change, with lower levels more likely to react faster, as they typically consist of smaller-bodied species with higher reproductive rates. This response could cause a mismatch between trophic levels, in which predators and prey will respond differently to changing abiotic or biotic conditions. This mismatch between trophic levels could result in altered top-down and bottom-up control and changes in interaction strength. To determine the possibility of a mismatch, we conducted a reciprocal-transplant experiment involving Sarracenia purpurea food webs consisting of bacterial communities as prey and a subset of six morphologically similar protozoans as predators. We used a factorial design with four temperatures, four bacteria and protozoan biogeographic origins, replicated four times. This design allowed us to determine how predator and prey dynamics were altered by abiotic (temperature) conditions and biotic (predators paired with prey from either their local or non-local biogeographic origin) conditions. We found that prey reached higher densities in warmer temperature regardless of their temperature of origin. Conversely, predators achieved higher densities in the temperature condition and with the prey from their origin. These results confirm that predators perform better in abiotic and biotic conditions of their origin while their prey do not. This mismatch between trophic levels may be especially significant under climate change, potentially disrupting ecosystem functioning by disproportionately affecting top-down and bottom-up control.	2016	6	10.1002/ece3.2236
Zhou, JZ; Deng, Y; Shen, LN; Wen, CQ; Yan, QY; Ning, DL; Qin, YJ; Xue, K; Wu, LY; He, ZL; Voordeckers, JW; Van Nostrand, JD; Buzzard, V; Michaletz, ST; Enquist, BJ; Weiser, MD; Kaspari, M; Waide, R; Yang, YF; Brown, JH	Temperature mediates continental-scale diversity of microbes in forest soils	NATURE COMMUNICATIONS	Climate warming is increasingly leading to marked changes in plant and animal biodiversity, but it remains unclear how temperatures affect microbial biodiversity, particularly in terrestrial soils. Here we show that, in accordance with metabolic theory of ecology, taxonomic and phylogenetic diversity of soil bacteria, fungi and nitrogen fixers are all better predicted by variation in environmental temperature than pH. However, the rates of diversity turnover across the global temperature gradients are substantially lower than those recorded for trees and animals, suggesting that the diversity of plant, animal and soil microbial communities show differential responses to climate change. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study demonstrating that the diversity of different microbial groups has significantly lower rates of turnover across temperature gradients than other major taxa, which has important implications for assessing the effects of human-caused changes in climate, land use and other factors.	2016	7	10.1038/ncomms12083
Stumpf, RM; Gomez, A; Amato, KR; Yeoman, CJ; Polk, JD; Wilson, BA; Nelson, KE; White, BA; Leigh, SR	Microbiomes, metagenomics, and primate conservation: New strategies, tools, and applications	BIOLOGICAL CONSERVATION	Conservation strategies require multifaceted approaches to monitor and protect primate populations, many of which are rapidly declining around the world. We propose that microbial ecology and next-generation microbiome analyses offer valuable perspectives and tools for investigating and monitoring primate health and improving conservation efforts. The microbial communities inhabiting primates and other taxa profoundly affect host health, nutrition, physiology, and immune systems, through relationships that range from commensal and mutualistic to pathogenic. Recent advances in DNA sequencing now make it feasible and-economically viable to identify microbiomes among and within hosts. Herein, we highlight several examples in which microbial analyses of primates can aid conservation approaches that are broadly applicable across other taxa. First, we highlight evidence for clear spatial variation (e.g. biogeographic niche specificity, both within the anatomical regions of the host body, as well as in the geographic location of the host) and temporal (e.g. seasonal, ontogenetic) patterns in microbial distribution. We emphasize that microbial communities are sensitive to alterations in the external environment and that microbial diversity correlates with habitat quality, imposing direct health consequences. Incorporating microbial host and biogeographic variation holds great potential for forest corridor assessments and for reintroduction efforts. Finally, microbial pathogens transmitted between humans and wild primate populations carry both direct and indirect conservation implications. Principally, we argue that phylogenetic analyses of infectious pathogens (e.g., Ebola, dengue, Borellia, and Treponema) can aid our understanding of modes of disease transmission and aid conservation disease abatement efforts. The application of microbial analyses to conservation is currently in its infancy but holds enormous potential. To date, no conservation policy or legislation includes microbiome assessments. Integrating new understanding of the patterns of microbial diversity and early signs of impending microbial disruption offer valuable tools for informing conservation strategies and monitoring and promoting primate (including human) health. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2016	199	10.1016/j.biocon.2016.03.035
Comte, J; Monier, A; Crevecoeur, S; Lovejoy, C; Vincent, WF	Microbial biogeography of permafrost thaw ponds across the changing northern landscape	ECOGRAPHY	Microbial diversity varies at multiple spatial scales, but little is known about how climate change may influence this variation. Here we assessed the free-living bacterioplankton composition of thaw ponds over a north-south gradient of permafrost degradation in the eastern Canadian subarctic. Three nested spatial scales were compared: 1) among ponds within individual valleys 2) between two valleys within each landscape type, and 3) between landscape types (southern sporadic versus northern discontinuous permafrost). As a reference point, we sampled rock-basin lakes whose formation was not related to permafrost thawing. -diversity was low at the smallest scale despite marked differences in limnological properties among neighboring ponds. -diversity was high among valleys, associated with greater environmental heterogeneity. The largest differences were between landscape types and appeared to reflect the concomitant effects of environmental filtering and dispersal limitation. Raup-Crick -diversity indicated that community assembly was driven by both stochastic (random extinction, dispersal, ecological drift) and deterministic (environmental filtering) processes. Communities sampled in the most degraded valley appeared primarily assembled through stochastic processes, while environmental filtering played a greater role at the other valleys. These results imply that climate warming and ongoing permafrost degradation will influence microbial community assembly, which in turn is likely to affect the functioning of thaw pond ecosystems.	2016	39	10.1111/ecog.01667
Klouch, KZ; Schmidt, S; Andrieux-Loyer, F; Le Gac, M; Hervio-Heath, D; Qui-Minet, ZN; Quere, J; Bigeard, E; Guillou, L; Siano, R	Historical records from dated sediment cores reveal the multidecadal dynamic of the toxic dinoflagellate Alexandrium minutum in the Bay of Brest (France)	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	The multiannual dynamic of the cyst-forming and toxic marine dinoflagellate Alexandrium minutum was studied over a time scale of about 150 years by a paleoecological approach based on ancient DNA (aDNA) quantification and cyst revivification data obtained from two dated sediment cores of the Bay of Brest (Brittany, France). The first genetic traces of the species presence in the study area dated back to 1873 +/- 6. Specific aDNA could be quantified by a newly developed real-time PCR assay in the upper core layers, in which the germination of the species (in up to 17-19-year-old sediments) was also obtained. In both cores studied, our quantitative paleogenetic data showed a statistically significant increasing trend in the abundance of A. minutum ITS1 rDNA copies over time, corroborating three decades of local plankton data that have documented an increasing trend in the species cell abundance. By comparison, paleogenetic data of the dinoflagellate Scrippsiella donghaienis did not show a coherent trend between the cores studied, supporting the hypothesis of the existence of a species-specific dynamic of A. minutum in the study area. This work contributes to the development of paleoecological research, further showing its potential for biogeographical, ecological and evolutionary studies on marine microbes.	2016	92	10.1093/femsec/fiw101
Grossmann, L; Bock, C; Schweikert, M; Boenigk, J	Small but Manifold - Hidden Diversity in Spumella-like Flagellates	JOURNAL OF EUKARYOTIC MICROBIOLOGY	Colourless, nonscaled chrysophytes comprise morphologically similar or even indistinguishable flagellates which are important bacterivors in water and soil crucial for ecosystem functioning. However, phylogenetic analyses indicate a multiple origin of such colourless, nonscaled flagellate lineages. These flagellates are often referred to as Spumella-like flagellates in ecological and biogeographic studies. Although this denomination reflects an assumed polyphyly, it obscures the phylogenetic and taxonomic diversity of this important flagellate group and, thus, hinders progress in lineage-and taxon-specific ecological surveys. The smallest representatives of colourless chrysophytes have been addressed in very few taxonomic studies although they are among the dominant flagellates in field communities. To overcome the blurred picture and set the field for further investigation in biogeography and ecology of the organisms in question, we studied a set of strains of specifically small, colourless, nonscaled chrysomonad flagellates by means of electron microscopy and molecular analyses. They were isolated by a filtration-acclimatisation approach focusing on flagellates of around 5 mu m. We present the phylogenetic position of eight different lineages on both the ordinal and the generic level. Accordingly, we describe the new genera Apoikiospumella, Chromulinospumella, Segregatospumella, Cornospumella and Acrispumella Boenigk et Grossmann n.g. and different species within them.	2016	63	10.1111/jeu.12287
Gawor, J; Grzesiak, J; Sasin-Kurowska, J; Borsuk, P; Gromadka, R; Gorniak, D; Swiatecki, A; Aleksandrzak-Piekarczyk, T; Zdanowski, MK	Evidence of adaptation, niche separation and microevolution within the genus Polaromonas on Arctic and Antarctic glacial surfaces	EXTREMOPHILES	Polaromonas is one of the most abundant genera found on glacier surfaces, yet its ecology remains poorly described. Investigations made to date point towards a uniform distribution of Polaromonas phylotypes across the globe. We compared 43 Polaromonas isolates obtained from surfaces of Arctic and Antarctic glaciers to address this issue. 16S rRNA gene sequences, intergenic transcribed spacers (ITS) and metabolic fingerprinting showed great differences between hemispheres but also between neighboring glaciers. Phylogenetic distance between Arctic and Antarctic isolates indicated separate species. The Arctic group clustered similarly, when constructing dendrograms based on 16S rRNA gene and ITS sequences, as well as metabolic traits. The Antarctic strains, although almost identical considering 16S rRNA genes, diverged into 2 groups based on the ITS sequences and metabolic traits, suggesting recent niche separation. Certain phenotypic traits pointed towards cell adaptation to specific conditions on a particular glacier, like varying pH levels. Collected data suggest, that seeding of glacial surfaces with Polaromonas cells transported by various means, is of greater efficiency on local than global scales. Selection mechanisms present of glacial surfaces reduce the deposited Polaromonas diversity, causing subsequent adaptation to prevailing environmental conditions. Furthermore, interactions with other supraglacial microbiota, like algae cells may drive postselectional niche separation and microevolution within the Polaromonas genus.	2016	20	10.1007/s00792-016-0831-0
Lankau, RA; Keymer, DP	Ectomycorrhizal fungal richness declines towards the host species range edge	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	Plant range boundaries are generally considered to reflect abiotic conditions; however, a rise in negative or decline in positive species interactions at range margins may contribute to these stable boundaries. While evidence suggests that pollinator mutualisms may decline near range boundaries, little is known about other important plant mutualisms, including microbial root symbionts. Here, we used molecular methods to characterize root-associated fungal communities in populations of two related temperate tree species from across the species range in the eastern United States. We found that ectomycorrhizal fungal richness on plant roots declined with distance from the centre of the host species range. These patterns were not evident in nonmycorrhizal fungal communities on roots nor in fungal communities in bulk soil. Climatic and soil chemical variables could not explain these biogeographic patterns, although these abiotic gradients affected other components of the bulk soil and rhizosphere fungal community. Depauperate ectomycorrhizal fungal communities may represent an underappreciated challenge to marginal tree populations, especially as rapid climate change pushes these populations outside their current climate niche.	2016	25	10.1111/mec.13628
Larkin, AA; Blinebry, SK; Howes, C; Lin, YJ; Loftus, SE; Schmaus, CA; Zinser, ER; Johnson, ZI	Niche partitioning and biogeography of high light adapted Prochlorococcus across taxonomic ranks in the North Pacific	ISME JOURNAL	The distribution of major clades of Prochlorococcus tracks light, temperature and other environmental variables; yet, the drivers of genomic diversity within these ecotypes and the net effect on biodiversity of the larger community are poorly understood. We examined high light (HL) adapted Prochlorococcus communities across spatial and temporal environmental gradients in the Pacific Ocean to determine the ecological drivers of population structure and diversity across taxonomic ranks. We show that the Prochlorococcus community has the highest diversity at low latitudes, but seasonality driven by temperature, day length and nutrients adds complexity. At finer taxonomic resolution, some sub-ecotype clades have unique, cohesive responses to environmental variables and distinct biogeographies, suggesting that presently defined ecotypes can be further partitioned into ecologically meaningful units. Intriguingly, biogeographies of the HL-I sub-ecotypes are driven by unique combinations of environmental traits, rather than through trait hierarchy, while the HL-II sub-ecotypes appear ecologically similar, thus demonstrating differences among these dominant HL ecotypes. Examining biodiversity across taxonomic ranks reveals high-resolution dynamics of Prochlorococcus evolution and ecology that are masked at phylogenetically coarse resolution. Spatial and seasonal trends of Prochlorococcus communities suggest that the future ocean may be comprised of different populations, with implications for ecosystem structure and function.	2016	10	10.1038/ismej.2015.244
Nino-Garcia, JP; Ruiz-Gonzalez, C; del Giorgio, PA	Interactions between hydrology and water chemistry shape bacterioplankton biogeography across boreal freshwater networks	ISME JOURNAL	Disentangling the mechanisms shaping bacterioplankton communities across freshwater ecosystems requires considering a hydrologic dimension that can influence both dispersal and local sorting, but how the environment and hydrology interact to shape the biogeography of freshwater bacterioplankton over large spatial scales remains unexplored. Using Illumina sequencing of the 16S ribosomal RNA gene, we investigate the large-scale spatial patterns of bacterioplankton across 386 freshwater systems from seven distinct regions in boreal Quebec. We show that both hydrology and local water chemistry (mostly pH) interact to shape a sequential structuring of communities from highly diverse assemblages in headwater streams toward larger rivers and lakes dominated by fewer taxa. Increases in water residence time along the hydrologic continuum were accompanied by major losses of bacterial richness and by an increased differentiation of communities driven by local conditions (pH and other related variables). This suggests that hydrology and network position modulate the relative role of environmental sorting and mass effects on community assembly by determining both the time frame for bacterial growth and the composition of the immigrant pool. The apparent low dispersal limitation (that is, the lack of influence of geographic distance on the spatial patterns observed at the taxonomic resolution used) suggests that these boreal bacterioplankton communities derive from a shared bacterial pool that enters the networks through the smallest streams, largely dominated by mass effects, and that is increasingly subjected to local sorting of species during transit along the hydrologic continuum.	2016	10	10.1038/ismej.2015.226
Santoferrara, LF; Grattepanche, JD; Katz, LA; McManus, GB	Patterns and processes in microbial biogeography: do molecules and morphologies give the same answers?	ISME JOURNAL	Our knowledge on microbial biogeography depends on the way we define and study diversity. In contrast to most microbes, some protist lineages have conspicuous structures that allow comparisons of diversity concepts and measures-those based on molecules and those based on morphology. We analyzed a group of shell-bearing planktonic ciliates, the tintinnids, in a coast-to-ocean gradient using high-throughput sequencing and microscopy. First, we compared molecular operational taxonomic units (OTUs) and morphospecies in terms of assemblage composition, distribution and relationships with the environment. OTUs revealed potentially novel and rare taxa, while morphospecies showed clearer correlations with environmental factors, and both approaches coincided in supporting a coastal versus oceanic pattern. Second, we explored which processes influence assembly across the environmental gradient examined. Assemblage fluctuations were associated with significant distance-decay and changes in morphospecies size and prey proxies, thus suggesting niche partitioning as a key structuring mechanism. Our conclusion is that molecules and morphologies generally agreed, but they provided complementary data, the first revealing hidden diversity, and the latter making better connections between distribution patterns and ecological processes. This highlights the importance of linking genotypes and phenotypes (using multidisciplinary analyses and/or reliable databases of barcoded species), to understand the diversity, biogeography and ecological roles of microbes.	2016	10	10.1038/ismej.2015.224
Jiao, S; Liu, ZS; Lin, YB; Yang, J; Chen, WM; Wei, GH	Bacterial communities in oil contaminated soils: Biogeography and co-occurrence patterns	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	To improve the knowledge about the biogeographic patterns of bacteria in soils contaminated with crude oil, we studied the effects of local geochemical properties and geographic distance on bacterial community structure in oil contaminated soil in five oil refineries (46-360 km apart). The microbial structure was significantly affected by soil environmental factors such as pH, total petroleum hydrocarbons (TPH), total nitrogen, and cadmium level. Microbial alpha-diversity was positively correlated with pH but negatively correlated with TPH. Among sampling sites, the community dissimilarities increased with spatial distance. Variation of bacterial community was mostly attributed to simultaneous effects of spatial distance and environmental factors, and purely spatial distance contributed more to the variation. Microbial generalist OTUs were broadly distributed and dominant in contaminated soils. Their populations were in low proportion (15.75%), but they had high relative abundance (65.05%), and some were associated with TPH-degradation. Network analysis indicated that microbial communities had nonrandom co-occurrence patterns. Keystone taxa were Rubrivivax, Nitrospira, Methylotenera, Methyloversatilis and Acidaminobacter. Microbial taxa from the same module had strong ecological linkages and were involved in biological electron-transfer, C and N-cycles, and organic contaminant degradation. Our results indicate that the same microbial groups with TPH-degradation ability can be assembled from indigenous microorganisms in separate regions through long term exposure to contamination. (C) 2016 Published by Elsevier Ltd.	2016	98	10.1016/j.soilbio.2016.04.005
Peay, KG; Kennedy, PG; Talbot, JM	Dimensions of biodiversity in the Earth mycobiome	NATURE REVIEWS MICROBIOLOGY	Fungi represent a large proportion of the genetic diversity on Earth and fungal activity influences the structure of plant and animal communities, as well as rates of ecosystem processes. Large-scale DNA-sequencing datasets are beginning to reveal the dimensions of fungal biodiversity, which seem to be fundamentally different to bacteria, plants and animals. In this Review, we describe the patterns of fungal biodiversity that have been revealed by molecular-based studies. Furthermore, we consider the evidence that supports the roles of different candidate drivers of fungal diversity at a range of spatial scales, as well as the role of dispersal limitation in maintaining regional endemism and influencing local community assembly. Finally, we discuss the ecological mechanisms that are likely to be responsible for the high heterogeneity that is observed in fungal communities at local scales.	2016	14	10.1038/nrmicro.2016.59
Capece, A; Granchi, L; Guerrini, S; Mangani, S; Romaniello, R; Vincenzini, M; Romano, P	Diversity of Saccharomyces cerevisiae Strains Isolated from Two Italian Wine-Producing Regions	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Numerous studies, based on different molecular techniques analyzing DNA polymorphism, have provided evidence that indigenous Saccharomyces cerevisiae populations display biogeographic patterns. Since the differentiated populations of S. cerevisiae seem to be responsible for the regional identity of wine, the aim of this work was to assess a possible relationship between the diversity and the geographical origin of indigenous S. cerevisiae isolates from two different Italian wine-producing regions (Tuscany and Basilicata). For this purpose, sixty-three isolates from Aglianico del Vulture grape must (main cultivar in the Basilicata region) and from Sangiovese grape must (main cultivar in the Tuscany region) were characterized genotypically, by mitochondrial DNA restriction analysis and MSP-PCR by using (GIG)(5) primers, and phenotypically, by determining technological properties and metabolic compounds of oenological interest after alcoholic fermentation. All the S. cerevisiae isolates from each region were inoculated both in must obtained from Aglianico grape and in must obtained from Sangiovese grape to carry out fermentations at laboratory-scale. Numerical analysis of DNA patterns resulting from both molecular methods and principal component analysis of phenotypic data demonstrated a high diversity among the S. cerevisiae strains. Moreover, a correlation between genotypic and phenotypic groups and geographical origin of the strains was found, supporting the concept that there can be a microbial aspect to terroir. Therefore, exploring the diversity of indigenous S. cerevisiae strains can allow developing tailored strategies to select wine yeast strains better adapted to each viticultural area.	2016	7	10.3389/fmicb.2010.01018
Zhang, YG; Cong, J; Lu, H; Deng, Y; Liu, X; Zhou, JZ; Li, DQ	Soil bacterial endemism and potential functional redundancy in natural broadleaf forest along a latitudinal gradient	SCIENTIFIC REPORTS	Microorganisms play key roles in ecosystem processes and biogeochemical cycling, however, the relationship between soil microbial taxa diversity and their function in natural ecosystems is largely unknown. To determine how soil bacteria community and function are linked from the local to regional scale, we studied soil bacteria community composition, potential function and environmental conditions in natural and mature broadleaf forests along a latitudinal gradient in China, using the Illumina 16S rRNA sequencing and GeoChip technologies. The results showed strong biogeographic endemism pattern in soil bacteria were existed, and the spatial distance and climatic variables were the key controlling factors for this pattern. Therefore, dispersal limitation and environmental selection may represent two key processes in generating and maintaining the soil bacterial biogeographic pattern. By contrast, the soil bacterial potential function is highly convergent along the latitudinal gradient and there were highly differing bacterial community compositions, and the soil chemistry may include the main factors active in shaping the soil bacterial potential function. Therefore, the soil bacterial potential function may be affected by local gradients in resource availability, and predicting soil bacterial potential function requires knowledge of abiotic and biotic environmental factors.	2016	6	10.1038/srep28819
Hennemann, FH; Conle, OV; Perez-Gelabert, DE	Studies on Neotropical Phasmatodea XVI: Revision of Haplopodini Gunther, 1953 (rev. stat.), with notes on the subfamily Cladomorphinae Bradley & Galil, 1977 and the descriptions of a new tribe, four new genera and nine new species (Phasmatodea: Anareolatae: Phasmatidae: Cladomorphinae)	ZOOTAXA	The anareolate New World subfamily Cladomorphinae Bradley & Galil, 1977 is reviewed and keys to the six tribes currently included are presented; these are: Cladomorphini Bradley & Galil, 1977, Cladoxerini Karny, 1923, Cranidiini Gunther, 1953, Pterinoxylini n. trib., Hesperophasmatini Bradley & Galil, 1977 and Haplopodini Gunther, 1953 rev. stat. New diagnoses are presented for all these tribes and possible relationships within Cladomorphinae are discusssed. Morphology of the genitalia and egg-structures indicate Cladomorphinae as presently treated to be polyphyletic. Two subordinate groups are recognized within present Cladomorphinae, which differ considerably in numerous morphological characters of the insects and eggs. The first group and here regarded as Cladomorphinae sensu stricto is formed by the mostly South American Cladomorphini + Cranidiini + Cladoxerini, while the second group is formed by the predominantly Caribbean Hesperophasmatini + Pterinoxylini n. trib. + Haplopodini. Members of the first group (= Cladomorphini sensu stricto) share the dorsally carinate basitarsus in which the two dorsal carinae are melted with another, increasingly elongated gonapophyses VIII of females which are noticeably longer than gonapophyses IX and lamellate as well as strongly displaced medioventral carina of the profemora. Cranidiini + Cladomorphini share the strongly elongated and filiform gonapophyses VIII and presence of gonoplacs in the females, specialized poculum of males and presence of a median line in the eggs. Cranidiini differs from all other tribes of Cladomorphinae by the entirely unarmed legs of both sexes, distinctly broadened and leaf-like body and prominent longitudinal keel of the mesosternum of females, prominently enlarged poculum and spinulose phallus of males as well as the conspicuous narrowing of the posteromedian gap of the internal micropylar plate of the eggs and noticeably separated median line. Cladomorphini is characteristic for the specialized vomer and poculum of males and distinct opercular structures of the eggs. Certain representatives of Cladomorphini indicate relationships to the Phanoclesgroup of Diapheromerinae: Diapheromerini, hence Cladomorphini as presently treated may be paraphyletic. The exclusively South American Cladoxerini (= Baculini n. syn.) differs from the other two tribes of Cladomorphinae sensu stricto by the distinctly serrate profemora of both sexes and conspicuously shortened antennae of females, which consist of less than 30 segments and are much shorter than the profemora in females. Genital morphology, such as the elongated gonapophyses VIII and presence of gonoplacs in females, as well as the lamellate medioventral carina of the profemora indicate close relation to Cladomorphini. Cranidiini appears to be the sister-taxon of Cladomorphini + Cladoxerini. The tribe Baculini Gunther, 1953 is synonymised with Cladoxerini (n. syn.), on the basis that the type-genera of both tribes are congeneric, with Baculum Saussure, 1861 being a junior synonym of Cladoxerus St. Fargeau & Audinet-Serville, 1827 (n. syn.). The genus Tersomia Kirby, 1904 is removed from Hesperophasmatini and transferred to Cladoxerini. Wattenwylia Toledo Piza, 1938 is removed from Pachymorphinae: Gratidiini and transferred to Cladoxerini. A detailed new diagnosis is presented for Cranidiini along with a detailed differentiation and the tribe is shown to be monotypical, only containing its type-genus Cranidium Westwood, 1843. All Caribbean genera subsequently added to Cranidiini are removed and transferred to Haplopodini rev. stat. The three tribes Hesperophasmatini + Pterinoxylini n. trib. + Haplopodini rev. stat. are closely related and might form a monophyletic clade within Cladomorphinae sensu lato. They differ from Cladomorphinae sensu stricto by the short gonapophyses VIII and reduced gonoplacs of females, unspecialized poculum of males and lack of a micropylar line in the eggs. Haplopodini Gunther, 1953 is re-established (rev. stat.) and comprises almost exclusively Caribbean genera previously placed in Hesperophasmatini by Bradley & Galil (1977) or Cranidiini by Zompro, (2004). Aploploides Rehn & Hebard, 1938, Diapherodes Gray, 1835, Haplopus Burmeister, 1838 and Paracranidium Brock, 1998 were misplaced in Cranidiini and are transferred to Haplopodini. On the basis of numerous morphological characters of the insects and eggs Hesperophasmatini is removed from Pseudophasmatidae: Xerosomatinae and re-transferred to its previous position in the subfamily Cladomorphinae sensu lato. A detailed newdiagnosis of Hesperophasmatini is presented, but is only provisional since the true diversity is as yet only fractionally known. The lack of a gula distinguishes Hesperophasmatini from all other tribes. The genus Laciphorus Redtenbacher, 1908 is removed from Hesperophasmatini and transferred to Diapheromeridae: Diapheromerinae: Diapheromerini. The new tribe Pterinoxylini n. trib. is established to contain only the type-genus Pterinoxylus Audinet-Serville, 1838. It is closely related and perhaps the sister taxon of Hesperophasmatini, with which it shares the presence of rough sensory areas on the probasisternum and profurcasternum. It differs from Hesperophasmatini and Haplopodini by the presence of a tympanal region (= stridulatory organ) in the alae of females and the alveolar eggs, which possess peripheral opercular and polar structures. Haplopodini is likely to be the sister group of Pterinoxylini n. trib. + Hesperophasmatini. The tribe Haplopodini rev. stat. is revised at the species level and comprises eight almost exclusively Caribbean genera, four of which are newly described. All eight genera now contained in Haplopodini are described in detail, differentiated from their closest relatives and their relationships and systematic position within Haplopodini are discussed. Keys and maps showing their distributions are presented along with a discussion of the distributional patterns. Detailed descriptions, differential diagnoses, synonymic listings, illustrations, material listings and measurements are given of all 26 currently known species and subspecies of Haplopodini. Four new genera are described within Haplopodini. The monotypical Apteroplopus n. gen. (type-species: Dyme grosse-tuberculata Brunner v. Wattenwyl, 1907) from Honduras is the only taxon of the tribe represented in Central America. It is only known from the male which differs from all other genera by being entirely apterous. Cephaloplopus n. gen. (type-species: Cephaloplopus pulchellus n. sp.) and Parhaplopus n. gen. (type-species: Haplopus cubensis Saussure, 1868) occur only on Hispaniola and Cuba. Both are closely related to Haplopus Burmeister, 1838 but in addition to having noticeably different eggs, both genera differ from Haplopus in several morphological characters. The monotypical Venupherodes n. gen. (type-species: Platycrana venustula Audinet-Serville, 1838) is endemic to Cuba, and in females being apterous resembles the second exclusively Cuban genus Aploploides Rehn & Hebard, 1938. It however differs from all other members of Haplopodini by the laterally expanded mesonotum of females, which overlaps the mesopleurae, as well as the morphology of the eggs. Two species-groups are recognized within Diapherodes Gray, 1835. The gigantea species-group comprises the species from the Lesser Antilles, which are: D. angulata (Fabricius, 1793), Diapherodes dominicae (Rehn & Hebard, 1938), D. gigantea gigantea (Gmelin, 1789), D. gigantea saintluciae n. ssp. and Diapherodes martinicensis Lelong & Langlois, 2005. The three species of the jamaicensis species-group, which are D. achalus (Rehn, 1904), D. jamaicensis( Drury, 1773) and D. laevicollis Redtenbacher, 1906, are restricted to the two Greater Antillean islands Jamaica and Puerto Rico. Haplopus Burmeister, 1838 is the most widely distributed genus being represented on all islands of the Greater Antilles except Jamaica, and also in the Virgin Islands, Bahamas, Florida Keys, Dry Tortugas and as far southwest as the Cayman Islands and Swan Islands. Nine new species and one new subspecies are described: Cephaloplopus alope n. sp. and Haplopus sobrinus n. sp. from Cuba, Cephaloplopus euchlorus n. sp., Cephaloplopus laetus n. sp., Cephaloplopus pulchellus n. sp., Haplopus brachypterus n. sp., Haplopus intermedius n. sp. and Parhaplopus navarroi n. sp. from Hispaniola, Haplopus woodruffi n. sp. from Cayman Brac (Cayman Islands) and Diapherodes gigantea saintluciae n. ssp. from Saint Lucia. Seven of these are described from both sexes but Cephaloplopus alope n. sp. and Haplopus sobrinus n. sp. are only known from the females and Cephaloplopus laetus n. sp. only from the males. The previously unknown males of Diapherodes angulata (Fabricius, 1793), Diapherodes laevicollis Redtenbacher, 1908, Haplopus bicuspidatus de Haan, 1842 and Parhaplopus cubensis (Saussure, 1868) as well as the previously unknown female of Parhaplopus evadne (Westwood, 1859) n. comb. are described and illustrated for the first time. Descriptions and illustrations of the eggs of eleven species are presented: Cephaloplopus euchlorus n. sp., Cephaloplopus pulchellus n. sp., Diapherodes achalus (Rehn, 1904), Diapherodes dominicae (Rehn & Hebard, 1938), Diapherodes gigantea gigantea (Gmelin, 1789), Diapherodes martinicensis Lelong & Langlois, 2005, Diapherodes jamaicensis (Drury, 1773), Haplopus bicuspidatus de Haan, 1842, Haplopus micropterus St. Fargeau & Audinet-Serville, 1825, Parhaplopus navarroi n. sp. and Venupherodes venustula (Audinet-Seville, 1838) n. comb.. Type specimens of the newly described taxa are deposited in the collections of ANSP, NHMUK, IIBZ, FSCA, MCZC, MNHN and USNM. Six species are transferred to other genera (n. comb.): Bacteria grossetuberculata (Brunner v. Wattenwyl, 1907) to Apteroplopus n. gen.; Haplopus cubensis Saussure, 1868 and Haplopus evadne Westwood, 1859 to Parhaplopus n. gen.; Diapherodes venustula (Audinet-Serville, 1838) to Venupherodes n. gen.; Haplopus jamaicensis (Drury, 1773) and Haplopus achalus Rehn, 1904 to Diapherodes Gray, 1835. Mantis angulata Fabricius, 1793 and Diapherodes gigantea dominicae Rehn & Hebard, 1938 are removed from synonymy with D. gigantea (Gmelin, 1789) and shown to be valid species (n. stat.). Fifteen new synonymies are revealed amongst the species studied: Diapherodes longiscapha Redtenbacher, 1908 = Diapherodes achalus (Rehn, 1904) n. syn.; Haplopus grayi Kaup, 1871 = Diapherodes angulata (Fabricius, 1793) n. syn.; Diapherodes glabricollis Gray, 1835 = Diapherodes jamaicensis (Drury, 1773) n. syn.; Diapherodes pulverulentus Gray, 1835 = Diapherodes jamaicensis (Drury, 1773) n. syn.; Diapherodes christopheri Westwood, 1859 = Diapherodes jamaicensis (Drury, 1773) n. syn.; Haplopus murinus Redtenbacher, 1908 = Diapherodes jamaicensis (Drury, 1773) n. syn.; Haplopus bituberculatum de Haan, 1842 = Haplopus micropterus (St. Fargeau & Audinet-Serville, 1825) n. syn.; Haplopus cythereus Westwood, 1859 = Haplopus micropterus (St. Fargeau & Audinet-Serville, 1825) n. syn.; Haplopus ligiolus Redtenbacher, 1908 = Haplopus micropterus (St. Fargeau & Audinet-Serville, 1825) n. syn.; Haplopus ligia Westwood, 1859 = Haplopus micropterus (St. Fargeau & Audinet-Serville, 1825) n. syn.; Haplopus mayeri Caudell, 1905 = Haplopus scabricollis (Gray, 1835) n. syn.; Aplopus similis Rehn, 1904 = Haplopus scabricollis Gray, 1835 n. syn.; Diapherodes spinipes Gray, 1835 = Haplopus micropterus (St. Fargeau & Audinet-Serville, 1825) n. syn.; Haplopus obtusus Redtenbacher, 1908 = Haplopus micropterus (St. Fargeau & Audinet-Serville, 1825) n. syn. and Haplopus juvenis Redtenbacher, 1908 = Venupherodes venustula (Audinet-Serville, 1838) n. syn.. The previously presumed lost holotype of Cyprocrana microptera St. Fargeau & Audinet-Serville, 1825 (= Phasma angulata Stoll, 1813), was traced in the collection of RMNH. The designation of a neotype has become necessary for Mantis angulata Fabricius, 1793 (in MNCN) and Platycrana venustula Audinet-Serville, 1838 (in MNHU). Lectotypes are designated for eight species: Diapherodes longiscapha Redtenbacher, 1908; Diapherodes scabricollis Gray, 1835; Haplopus christopheri Westwood, 1859; Haplopus cytherea Westwood, 1859; Haplopus juvenis Redtenbacher, 1908; Haplopus ligiolus Redtenbacher, 1908; Haplopus ligia Westwood, 1859 and Haplopus murinus Redtenbacher, 1908.	2016	4128	10.11646/zootaxa.4128.1.1
Hanson, CA; Marston, MF; Martiny, JBH	Biogeographic Variation in Host Range Phenotypes and Taxonomic Composition of Marine Cyanophage Isolates	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Despite the important role of phages in marine systems, little is understood about how their diversity is distributed in space. Biogeographic patterns of marine phages may be difficult to detect due to their vast genetic diversity, which may not be accurately represented by conserved marker genes. To investigate the spatial biogeographic structure of marine phages, we isolated over 400 cyanophages on Synechococcus host strain WH7803 at three coastal locations in the United States (Rhode Island, Washington, and southern California). Approximately 90% of the cyanophage isolates were myoviruses, while the other 10% were podoviruses. The diversity of isolates was further characterized in two ways: (i) taxonomically, using conserved marker genes and (ii) phenotypically, by testing isolates for their ability to infect a suite of hosts, or their host range. Because host range is a highly variable trait even among closely related isolates, we hypothesized that host range phenotypes of cyanophage isolates would vary more strongly among locations than would taxonomic composition. Instead, we found evidence for strong biogeographic variation both in taxonomic composition and host range phenotypes, with little taxonomic overlap among the three coastal regions. For both taxonomic composition and host range phenotypes, cyanophage communities from California and Rhode Island were the most dissimilar, while Washington communities exhibited similarity to each of the other two locations. These results suggest that selection imposed by spatial variation in host dynamics influence the biogeographic distribution of cyanophages.	2016	7	10.3389/fmicb.2016.00983
Laforest-Lapointe, I; Messier, C; Kembel, SW	Host species identity, site and time drive temperate tree phyllosphere bacterial community structure	MICROBIOME	Background: The increasing awareness of the role of phyllosphere microbial communities in plant health calls for a greater understanding of their structure and dynamics in natural ecosystems. Since most knowledge of tree phyllosphere bacterial communities has been gathered in tropical forests, our goal was to characterize the community structure and assembly dynamics of phyllosphere epiphytic bacterial communities in temperate forests in Quebec, Canada. We targeted five dominant tree species: Acer saccharum, Acer rubrum, Betula papyrifera, Abies balsamea, and Picea glauca. We collected 180 samples of phyllosphere communities on these species at four natural forest sites, three times during the growing season. Results: Host functional traits (i.e., wood density, leaf nitrogen content) and climate variables (summer mean temperature and precipitation) were strongly correlated with community structure. We highlight three key findings: (1) temperate tree species share a core microbiome; (2) significant evolutionary associations exist between groups of bacteria and host species; and (3) a greater part of the variation in phyllosphere bacterial community assembly is explained by host species identity (27 %) and species-site interaction (14 %), than by site (11 %) or time (1 %). Conclusions: We demonstrated that host species identity is a stronger driver of temperate tree phyllosphere bacterial communities than site or time. Our results suggest avenues for future studies on the influence of host functional traits on phyllosphere community functional biogeography across terrestrial biomes.	2016	4	10.1186/s40168-016-0174-1
Perez-Losada, M; Crandall, KA; Freishtat, RJ	Two sampling methods yield distinct microbial signatures in the nasopharynges of asthmatic children	MICROBIOME	Background: The nasopharynx is a reservoir for pathogens associated with respiratory illnesses, such as asthma. Next-generation sequencing (NGS) has been used to characterize the nasopharyngeal microbiome during health and disease. Most studies so far have surveyed the nasopharynx as a whole; however, less is known about spatial variation (biogeography) in nasal microenvironments and how sampling techniques may capture that microbial diversity. Findings: We used targeted 16S rRNA MiSeq sequencing and two different sampling strategies [nasal washes (NW) and nasal brushes (NB)] to characterize the nasopharyngeal microbiota in 30 asthmatic children. Nasal brushing is more abrasive than nasal washing and targeted the inner portion of the inferior turbinate. This region is expected to be different from other nasal microenvironments. Nasal washing is not spatially specific. Our 30 x 2 nasal microbiomes generated 1,474,497 sequences, from which we identified an average of 157 and 186 OTUs per sample in the NW and NB groups, respectively. Microbiotas from NB showed significantly higher alpha-diversity than microbiotas from NW. Similarly, both nasal microbiotas were distinct from each other (PCoA) and significantly differed in their community composition and abundance in at least 9 genera (effective size = 1 %). Conclusions: Nasopharyngeal microenvironments in asthmatic children contain microbiotas with different diversity and structure. Nasal washes and brushes capture that diversity differently. Future microbial studies of the nasopharynx need to be aware of potential spatial variation (biogeography).	2016	4	10.1186/s40168-016-0170-5
Li, Q; Song, XZ; Gu, HH; Gao, F	Nitrogen deposition and management practices increase soil microbial biomass carbon but decrease diversity in Moso bamboo plantations	SCIENTIFIC REPORTS	Because microbial communities play a key role in carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) cycling, changes in the soil microbial community may directly affect ecosystem functioning. However, the effects of N deposition and management practices on soil microbes are still poorly understood. We studied the effects of these two factors on soil microbial biomass carbon (MBC) and community composition in Moso bamboo plantations using high-throughput sequencing of the 16S rRNA gene. Plantations under conventional (CM) or intensive management (IM) were subjected to one of four N treatments for 30 months. IM and N addition, both separately and in combination, significantly increased soil MBC while decreasing bacterial diversity. However, increases in soil MBC were inhibited when N addition exceeded 60 kg N.ha(-1).yr(-1). IM increased the relative abundances of Actinobacteria and Crenarchaeota but decreased that of Acidobacteria. N addition increased the relative abundances of Acidobacteria, Crenarchaeota, and Actinobacteria but decreased that of Proteobacteria. Soil bacterial diversity was significantly related to soil pH, C/N ratio, and nitrogen and available phosphorus content. Management practices exerted a greater influence over regulation of the soil MBC and microbial diversity compared to that of N deposition in Moso bamboo plantations.	2016	6	10.1038/srep28235
Lucas, J; Wichels, A; Gerdts, G	Spatiotemporal variation of the bacterioplankton community in the German Bight: from estuarine to offshore regions	HELGOLAND MARINE RESEARCH	Marine microbial biogeography has been studied intensively; however few studies address community variation across temporal and spatial scales simultaneously so far. Here we present a yearlong study investigating the dynamics of the free-living and particle-attached bacterioplankton community across a 100 km transect in the German Bight reaching from the Elbe estuary towards the open North Sea. Community composition was assessed using automated ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis and linked to environmental parameters applying multivariate statistical techniques. Results suggest that the spatial variation of the bacterioplankton community is defined by hydrographic current conditions, which separate the inner German Bight from the open North Sea and lead to pronounced differences in the coastal and offshore bacterioplankton community. However this spatial variation is overwhelmed by a strong temporal variation which is triggered by temperature as the main driving force throughout the whole transect. Variation in the free-living community was predominantly driven by temperature, whereas the particle-attached community exhibited stronger spatial variation patterns.	2016	70	10.1186/s10152-016-0464-9
Geisen, S	Thorough high-throughput sequencing analyses unravels huge diversities of soil parasitic protists	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY		2016	18	10.1111/1462-2920.13309
Mortzfeld, BM; Urbanski, S; Reitzel, AM; Kunzel, S; Technau, U; Fraune, S	Response of bacterial colonization in Nematostella vectensis to development, environment and biogeography	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	The establishment of host-bacterial colonization during development is a fundamental process influencing the fitness of many organisms, but the factors controlling community membership and influencing the establishment of the microbial ecosystem during development are poorly understood. The starlet sea anemone Nematostella vectensis serves as a cnidarian model organism due to the availability of laboratory cultures and its high tolerance for broad ranges of salinity and temperature. Here, we show that the anemones epithelia are colonized by diverse bacterial communities and that the composition of its microbiota is tightly coupled to host development. Environmental variations led to robust adjustments in the microbial composition while still maintaining the ontogenetic core signature. In addition, analysis of bacterial communities of Nematostella polyps from five different populations revealed a strong correlation between host biogeography and bacterial diversity despite years of laboratory culturing. These observed variations in fine-scale community composition following environmental change and for individuals from different geographic origins could represent the microbiomes contribution to host acclimation and potentially adaptation, respectively, and thereby contribute to the maintenance of homeostasis due to environmental changes.	2016	18	10.1111/1462-2920.12926
Klaedtke, S; Jacques, MA; Raggi, L; Preveaux, A; Bonneau, S; Negri, V; Chable, V; Barret, M	Terroir is a key driver of seed-associated microbial assemblages	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Seeds have evolved in association with diverse microbial assemblages that may influence plant growth and health. However, little is known about the composition of seed-associated microbial assemblages and the ecological processes shaping their structures. In this work, we monitored the relative influence of the host genotypes and terroir on the structure of the seed microbiota through metabarcoding analysis of different microbial assemblages associated to five different bean cultivars harvested in two distinct farms. Overall, few bacterial and fungal operational taxonomic units (OTUs) were conserved across all seed samples. The lack of shared OTUs between samples is explained by a significant effect of the farm site on the structure of microbial assemblage, which explained 12.2% and 39.7% of variance in bacterial and fungal diversity across samples. This site-specific effect is reflected by the significant enrichment of 70 OTUs in Brittany and 88 OTUs in Luxembourg that lead to differences in co-occurrence patterns. In contrast, variance in microbial assemblage structure was not explained by host genotype. Altogether, these results suggest that seed-associated microbial assemblage is determined by niche-based processes and that the terroir is a key driver of these selective forces.	2016	18	10.1111/1462-2920.12977
Ferrari, BC; Bissett, A; Snape, I; van Dorst, J; Palmer, AS; Ji, MK; Siciliano, SD; Stark, JS; Winsley, T; Brown, MV	Geological connectivity drives microbial community structure and connectivity in polar, terrestrial ecosystems	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Landscape heterogeneity impacts community assembly in animals and plants, but it is not clear if this ecological concept extends to microbes. To examine this question, we chose to investigate polar soil environments from the Antarctic and Arctic, where microbes often form the major component of biomass. We examined soil environments that ranged in connectivity from relatively well-connected slopes to patchy, fragmented landforms that comprised isolated frost boils. We found landscape connectedness to have a significant correlation with microbial community structure and connectivity, as measured by co-occurrence networks. Soils from within fragmented landforms appeared to exhibit less local environmental heterogeneity, harboured more similar communities, but fewer biological associations than connected landforms. This effect was observed at both poles, despite the geographical distances and ecological differences between them. We suggest that microbial communities inhabiting well-connected landscape elements respond consistently to regional-scale gradients in biotic and edaphic factors. Conversely, the repeated freeze thaw cycles that characterize fragmented landscapes create barriers within the landscape and act to homogenize the soil environment within individual frost boils and consequently the microbial communities. We propose that lower microbial connectivity in the fragmented landforms is a function of smaller patch size and continual disturbances following soil mixing.	2016	18	10.1111/1462-2920.13034
OBrien, SL; Gibbons, SM; Owens, SM; Hampton-Marcell, J; Johnston, ER; Jastrow, JD; Gilbert, JA; Meyer, F; Antonopoulos, DA	Spatial scale drives patterns in soil bacterial diversity	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Soil microbial communities are essential for ecosystem function, but linking community composition to biogeochemical processes is challenging because of high microbial diversity and large spatial variability of most soil characteristics. We investigated soil bacterial community structure in a switchgrass stand planted on soil with a history of grassland vegetation at high spatial resolution to determine whether biogeographic trends occurred at the centimeter scale. Moreover, we tested whether such heterogeneity, if present, influenced community structure within or among ecosystems. Pronounced heterogeneity was observed at centimeter scales, with abrupt changes in relative abundance of phyla from sample to sample. At the ecosystem scale (> 10 m), however, bacterial community composition and structure were subtly, but significantly, altered by fertilization, with higher alpha diversity in fertilized plots. Moreover, by comparing these data with data from 1772 soils from the Earth Microbiome Project, it was found that 20% diverse globally sourced soil samples, while grassland soils shared approximately 40% of their operational taxonomic units with the current study. By spanning several orders of magnitude, the analysis suggested that extreme patchiness characterized community structure at smaller scales but that coherent patterns emerged at larger length scales.	2016	18	10.1111/1462-2920.13231
Frank, AH; Garcia, JAL; Herndl, GJ; Reinthaler, T	Connectivity between surface and deep waters determines prokaryotic diversity in the North Atlantic Deep Water	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	To decipher the influence of depth stratification and surface provincialism on the dark ocean prokaryotic community composition, we sampled the major deep-water masses in the eastern North Atlantic covering three biogeographic provinces. Their diversity was evaluated using ordination and canonical analysis of 454 pyrotag sequences. Variance partitioning suggested that 16% of the variation in the bacterial community composition was based on depth stratification while 9% of the variation was due to geographic location. General linear mixed effect models showed that the community of the subsurface waters was connected to the dark ocean prokaryotic communities in different biogeographic provinces. Cluster analysis indicated that some prokaryotic taxa are specific to distinct regions in bathypelagic water masses. Taken together, our data suggest that the dark ocean prokaryotic community composition of the eastern North Atlantic is primed by the formation and the horizontal transport of water masses.	2016	18	10.1111/1462-2920.13237
Zheng, YL; Jiang, XF; Hou, LJ; Liu, M; Lin, XB; Gao, J; Li, XF; Yin, GY; Yu, CD; Wang, R	Shifts in the community structure and activity of anaerobic ammonium oxidation bacteria along an estuarine salinity gradient	JOURNAL OF GEOPHYSICAL RESEARCH-BIOGEOSCIENCES	Anaerobic ammonium oxidation (anammox) is a major microbial pathway for nitrogen (N) removal in estuarine and coastal environments. However, understanding of anammox bacterial dynamics and associations with anammox activity remains scarce along estuarine salinity gradient. In this study, the diversity, abundance, and activity of anammox bacteria, and their potential contributions to total N-2 production in the sediments along the salinity gradient (0.1-33.8) of the Yangtze estuarine and coastal zone, were studied using 16S rRNA gene clone library, quantitative polymerase chain reaction assay, and isotope-tracing technique. Phylogenetic analysis showed a significant change in anammox bacterial community structure along the salinity gradient (P<0.01), with the dominant genus shifting from Brocadia in the freshwater region to Scalindua in the open ocean. Anammox bacterial abundance ranged from 3.67x10(5) to 8.22x10(7)copies 16S rRNA geneg(-1) and related significantly with salinity (P<0.05). The anammox activity varied between 0.08 and 6.46nmolNg(-1)h(-1) and related closely with anammox bacterial abundance (P<0.01). Contributions of anammox activity to total N loss were highly variable along the salinity gradient, ranging from 5 to 77% and were significantly negatively correlated with salinity (P<0.01). Sediment organic matter was also recognized as an important factor in controlling the relative role of anammox to total N-2 production in the Yangtze estuarine and coastal zone. Overall, our data demonstrated a biogeographical distribution of anammox bacterial diversity, abundance, and activity along the estuarine salinity gradient and suggested that salinity is a major environmental control on anammox process in the estuarine and coastal ecosystems.	2016	121	10.1002/2015JG003300
Linnert, C; Engelke, J; Wilmsen, M; Mutterlose, J	The impact of the Maastrichtian cooling on the marine nutrient regimeEvidence from midlatitudinal calcareous nannofossils	PALEOCEANOGRAPHY	The latest Campanian-earliest Maastrichtian interval is well known as a period of intense climate cooling. This cooling caused a distinctive bipolar biogeographic distribution of calcareous nannofossil assemblages: High-latitude settings were dominated by newly evolving endemic taxa, former cosmopolitan species disappeared at the same time, and equatorial communities experienced an invasion of cool water taxa. The impact of this cooling on northern midlatitude assemblages is, however, less well known. In order to overcome this gap we studied the Kronsmoor section (northwest Germany). This section provides a continuous upper Campanianlower Maastrichtian succession with moderately to well preserved nannofossils. Uppermost Campanian assemblages are dominated by Prediscosphaera cretacea; other common taxa include Prediscosphaera stoveri, Watznaueria barnesiae, and Micula staurophora. The lower Maastrichtian is characterized by lower numbers of P. cretacea and frequent Kamptnerius magnificus, Arkhangelskiella cymbiformis, and Cribrosphaerella ehrenbergii. These changes reflect, in part, the Campanian-Maastrichtian boundary cooling since some successful taxa (e.g., K. magnificus) are related to cool surface waters. Other shifts in the nannofossil communities were perhaps the result of a changing nutrient regime. Stronger latitudinal gradients may have increased wind velocities and thus the eolian input of ferruginous dust required by N-fixing bacteria. The enhanced high-latitude deep water formation probably changed the bottom water environment in disfavor of denitrificating organisms. A decline of chemical weathering and fluviatile transport may have reduced the amount of bioavailable phosphate. These processes led to an increased nitrate and a decreased phosphate content shifting the nutrient regime from nitrate toward phosphate limitation.	2016	31	10.1002/2015PA002916
Tu, QC; Deng, Y; Yan, QY; Shen, LN; Lin, L; He, ZL; Wu, LY; Van Nostrand, JD; Buzzard, V; Michaletz, ST; Enquist, BJ; Weiser, MD; Kaspari, M; Waide, RB; Brown, JH; Zhou, JZ	Biogeographic patterns of soil diazotrophic communities across six forests in the North America	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	Soil diazotrophs play important roles in ecosystem functioning by converting atmospheric N-2 into biologically available ammonium. However, the diversity and distribution of soil diazotrophic communities in different forests and whether they follow biogeographic patterns similar to macroorganisms still remain unclear. By sequencing nifH gene amplicons, we surveyed the diversity, structure and biogeographic patterns of soil diazotrophic communities across six North American forests (126 nested samples). Our results showed that each forest harboured markedly different soil diazotrophic communities and that these communities followed traditional biogeographic patterns similar to plant and animal communities, including the taxa-area relationship (TAR) and latitudinal diversity gradient. Significantly higher community diversity and lower microbial spatial turnover rates (i.e. z-values) were found for rainforests (similar to 0.06) than temperate forests (similar to 0.1). The gradient pattern of TARs and community diversity was strongly correlated (r(2) > 0.5) with latitude, annual mean temperature, plant species richness and precipitation, and weakly correlated (r(2) < 0.25) with pH and soil moisture. This study suggests that even microbial subcommunities (e.g. soil diazotrophs) follow general biogeographic patterns (e.g. TAR, latitudinal diversity gradient), and indicates that the metabolic theory of ecology and habitat heterogeneity may be the major underlying ecological mechanisms shaping the biogeographic patterns of soil diazotrophic communities.	2016	25	10.1111/mec.13651
Lutz, S; Anesio, AM; Raiswell, R; Edwards, A; Newton, RJ; Gill, F; Benning, LG	The biogeography of red snow microbiomes and their role in melting arctic glaciers	NATURE COMMUNICATIONS	The Arctic is melting at an unprecedented rate and key drivers are changes in snow and ice albedo. Here we show that red snow, a common algal habitat blooming after the onset of melting, plays a crucial role in decreasing albedo. Our data reveal that red pigmented snow algae are cosmopolitan as well as independent of location-specific geochemical and mineralogical factors. The patterns for snow algal diversity, pigmentation and, consequently albedo, are ubiquitous across the Arctic and the reduction in albedo accelerates snow melt and increases the time and area of exposed bare ice. We estimated that the overall decrease in snow albedo by red pigmented snow algal blooms over the course of one melt season can be 13%. This will invariably result in higher melt rates. We argue that such a bio-albedo effect has to be considered in climate models.	2016	7	10.1038/ncomms11968
Pershina, EV; Ivanova, EA; Nagieva, AG; Zhiengaliev, AT; Chirak, EL; Andronov, EE; Sergaliev, NK	A Comparative Analysis of Microbiomes in Natural and Anthropogenically Disturbed Soils of Northwestern Kazakhstan	EURASIAN SOIL SCIENCE	The goal of this study was to determine the relationships between the structure of the soil microbiome and the agroecological state of soils by the example of natural undisturbed (steppe areas) and anthropogenically disturbed (pastures, croplands, fallows) areas in the territory of northwestern Kazakhstan. The highest abundance of proteobacteria was found in the anthropogenically disturbed of fallows and in undisturbed soils; in other cases, actinobacteria and representatives of the Firmicutes phylum predominated. Different kinds of anthropogenic impacts resulted in the decrease in the portions of bacteria from the Acidobacteria, Gemmatimonadetes, and Firmicutes phyla. In the disturbed soils, the portions of bacteria from the Erysipelothrix, Mycobacterium, Methylibium, Skermanella, Ralstonia, Lactococcus, Bdellovibrio, Candidatus nitrososphaera, Catellatospora, Cellulomonas, Stenotrophomonas, and Steroidobacter genera increased. Bacteria of the Erysipelothrix and Methylibium genera occurred only in the undisturbed soils. The anthropogenically disturbed and undisturbed soils differed significantly in the taxonomic structure of their microbiomes forming two separate clusters, which confirms the efficiency of using the data on the structure of soil microbiomes when assessing the agroecological status of soils.	2016	49	10.1134/S1064229316060090
Pace, LA; Crowe, SE	Complex Relationships Between Food, Diet, and the Microbiome	GASTROENTEROLOGY CLINICS OF NORTH AMERICA	Diet is a risk factor in several medically important disease states, including obesity, celiac disease, and functional gastrointestinal disorders. Modification of diet can prevent, treat, or alleviate some of the symptoms associated with these diseases and improve general health. It is important to provide patients with simple dietary recommendations to increase the probability of successful implementation. These recommendations include increasing vegetable, fruit, and fiber intake, consuming lean protein sources to enhance satiety, avoiding or severely limiting highly processed foods, and reducing portion sizes for overweight and obese patients.	2016	45	10.1016/j.gtc.2016.02.004
Snelgrove, PVR	An Ocean of Discovery: Biodiversity Beyond the Census of Marine Life	PLANTA MEDICA	The 70% of Earths surface covered by oceans supports significant biological diversity and immense untapped potential for marine bioproducts. The recently completed international Census of Marine Life (2000-2010) invested heavily in evaluating the diversity, abundance, and distribution of life in the ocean but concluded that at least 50% and potentially > 90% of marine species remain undescribed by science. Despite this potential, and numerous successes spanning pharmaceuticals, nutraceuticals, anti-foulants and adhesives, biofuels, biocatalysts (enzymes), and cosmetics, several impediments have slowed marine bioproduct development. First, the sheer size of the ocean constrains comprehensive exploration. Second, marine taxonomists and ecologists generally do not focus on the most promising groups for bioproduct development. Third, the geographic mismatch between (often remote) biodiversity hotspots and science capacity limit discovery. Despite these challenges, new ocean sampling tools (digital imaging, remote vehicles, genetic approaches, in situ samplers), many developed or improved during the Census of Marine Life, should enhance future marine biodiversity and thus marine bioproduct discovery.	2016	82	10.1055/s-0042-103934
de Carcer, DA; Lopez-Bueno, A; Alonso-Lobo, JM; Quesada, A; Alcami, A	Metagenomic analysis of lacustrine viral diversity along a latitudinal transect of the Antarctic Peninsula	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Environmental viruses constitute the most abundant biological entities on earth, and harbor an enormous genetic diversity. While their strong influence on the ecosystem is widely acknowledged, current knowledge about their diversity and distribution remains limited. Here we present the metagenomic study of viral communities from freshwater bodies located along a transect of the Antarctic Peninsula. These ecosystems were chosen on the basis of environmental and biogeographical variation. The results obtained indicate that the virus assemblages were diverse, and that the larger fraction represented viruses with no close relatives in the databases. Comparisons to existing metaviromes showed that the communities studied were dissimilar to other freshwater viromes including those from the Arctic. Finally, we observed no indication of there being a reduction in either viral richness or diversity estimates with increasing latitude along the studied transect, further adding to the controversy regarding the possible existence of latitudinal gradients of diversity in the microbial world.	2016	92	10.1093/femsec/fiw074
Gazol, A; Zobel, M; Cantero, JJ; Davison, J; Esler, KJ; Jairus, T; Opik, M; Vasar, M; Moora, M	Impact of alien pines on local arbuscular mycorrhizal fungal communities-evidence from two continents	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	The introduction of alien plants can influence biodiversity and ecosystems. However, its consequences for soil microbial communities remain poorly understood. We addressed the impact of alien ectomycorrhizal (EcM) pines on local arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungal communities in two regions with contrasting biogeographic histories: in South Africa, where no native EcM plant species are present; and in Argentina, where EcM trees occur naturally. The effect of alien pines on AM fungal communities differed between these regions. In South Africa, plantations of alien EcM pines exhibited lower AM fungal richness and significantly altered community composition, compared with native fynbos. In Argentina, the richness and composition of local AM fungal communities were similar in plantations of alien EcM pines and native forest. However, the presence of alien pines resulted in slight changes to the phylogenetic structure of root AM fungal communities in both regions. In pine clearcut areas in South Africa, the richness and composition of AM fungal communities were intermediate between the native fynbos and the alien pine plantation, which is consistent with natural regeneration of former AM fungal communities following pine removal. We conclude that the response of local AM fungal communities to alien EcM pines differs between biogeographic regions with different histories of species coexistence.	2016	92	10.1093/femsec/fiw073
Sheng, YZ; Bibby, K; Grettenberger, C; Kaley, B; Macalady, JL; Wang, GC; Burgos, WD	Geochemical and Temporal Influences on the Enrichment of Acidophilic Iron-Oxidizing Bacterial Communities	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Two acid mine drainage (AMD) sites in the Appalachian bituminous coal basin were selected to enrich for Fe(II)-oxidizing microbes and measure rates of low-pH Fe(II) oxidation in chemostatic bioreactors. Microbial communities were enriched for 74 to 128 days in fed-batch mode, then switched to flowthrough mode (additional 52 to 138 d) to measure rates of Fe(II) oxidation as a function of pH (2.1 to 4.2) and influent Fe(II) concentration (80 to 2,400 mg/liter). Biofilm samples were collected throughout these operations, and the microbial community structure was analyzed to evaluate impacts of geochemistry and incubation time. Alpha diversity decreased as the pH decreased and as the Fe(II) concentration increased, coincident with conditions that attained the highest rates of Fe(II) oxidation. The distribution of the seven most abundant bacterial genera could be explained by a combination of pH and Fe(II) concentration. Acidithiobacillus, Ferrovum, Gallionella, Leptospirillum, Ferrimicrobium, Acidiphilium, and Acidocella were all found to be restricted within specific bounds of pH and Fe(II) concentration. Temporal distance, defined as the cumulative number of pore volumes from the start of flowthrough mode, appeared to be as important as geochemical conditions in controlling microbial community structure. Both alpha and beta diversities of microbial communities were significantly correlated to temporal distance in the flowthrough experiments. Even after long-term operation under nearly identical geochemical conditions, microbial communities enriched from the different sites remained distinct. While these microbial communities were enriched from sites that displayed markedly different field rates of Fe(II) oxidation, rates of Fe(II) oxidation measured in laboratory bioreactors were essentially the same. These results suggest that the performance of suspended-growth bioreactors for AMD treatment may not be strongly dependent on the inoculum used for reactor startup. IMPORTANCE This study showed that different microbial communities enriched from two sites maintained distinct microbial community traits inherited from their respective seed materials. Long-term operation (up to 128 days of fed-batch enrichment followed by up to 138 days of flowthrough experiments) of these two systems did not lead to the same, or even more similar, microbial communities. However, these bioreactors did oxidize Fe(II) and remove total iron[Fe(T)] at very similar rates. These results suggest that the performance of suspended-growth bioreactors for AMD treatment may not be strongly dependent on the inoculum used for reactor startup. This would be advantageous, because system performance should be well constrained and predictable for many different sites.	2016	82	10.1128/AEM.00917-16
Giongo, A; Haag, T; Simao, TLL; Medina-Silva, R; Utz, LRP; Bogo, MR; Bonatto, SL; Zamberlan, PM; Augustin, AH; Lourega, RV; Rodrigues, LF; Sbrissa, GF; Kowsmann, RO; Freire, AFM; Miller, DJ; Viana, AR; Ketzer, JMM; Eizirik, E	Discovery of a chemosynthesis-based community in the western South Atlantic Ocean	DEEP-SEA RESEARCH PART I-OCEANOGRAPHIC RESEARCH PAPERS	Chemosynthetic communities have been described from a variety of deep-sea environments across the worlds oceans. They constitute very interesting biological systems in terms of their ecology, evolution and biogeography, and also given their potential as indicators of the presence and abundance of consistent hydrocarbon-based nutritional sources. Up to now such peculiar biotic assemblages have not been reported for the western South Atlantic Ocean, leaving this large region undocumented with respect to the presence, composition and history of such communities. Here we report on the presence of a chemosynthetic community off the coast of southern Brazil, in an area where high-levels of methane and the presence of gas hydrates have been detected. We performed metagenomic analyses of the microbial community present at this site, and also employed molecular approaches to identify components of its benthic fauna. We conducted phylogenetic analyses comparing the components of this assemblage to those found elsewhere in the world, which allowed a historical assessment of the structure and dynamics of these systems. Our results revealed that the microbial community at this site is quite diverse, and contains many components that are very closely related to lineages previously sampled in ecologically similar environments across the globe. Anaerobic methanotrophic (ANME) archaeal groups were found to be very abundant at this site, suggesting that methane is indeed an important source of nutrition for this community. In addition, we document the presence at this site of a vestimentiferan siboglinid polychaete and the bivalve Acharax sp., both of which are typical components of deep-sea chemosynthetic communities. The remarkable similarity in biotic composition between this area and other deep-sea communities across the world supports the interpretation that these assemblages are historically connected across the global oceans, undergoing colonization from distant sites and influenced by local ecological features that select a stereotyped suite of specifically adapted organisms. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2016	112	10.1016/j.dsr.2015.10.010
Kuang, JL; Huang, LN; He, ZL; Chen, LX; Hua, ZS; Jia, P; Li, SJ; Liu, J; Li, JT; Zhou, JZ; Shu, WS	Predicting taxonomic and functional structure of microbial communities in acid mine drainage	ISME JOURNAL	Predicting the dynamics of community composition and functional attributes responding to environmental changes is an essential goal in community ecology but remains a major challenge, particularly in microbial ecology. Here, by targeting a model system with low species richness, we explore the spatial distribution of taxonomic and functional structure of 40 acid mine drainage (AMD) microbial communities across Southeast China profiled by 16S ribosomal RNA pyrosequencing and a comprehensive microarray (GeoChip). Similar environmentally dependent patterns of dominant microbial lineages and key functional genes were observed regardless of the large-scale geographical isolation. Functional and phylogenetic beta-diversities were significantly correlated, whereas functional metabolic potentials were strongly influenced by environmental conditions and community taxonomic structure. Using advanced modeling approaches based on artificial neural networks, we successfully predicted the taxonomic and functional dynamics with significantly higher prediction accuracies of metabolic potentials (average Bray-Curtis similarity 87.8) as compared with relative microbial abundances (similarity 66.8), implying that natural AMD microbial assemblages may be better predicted at the functional genes level rather than at taxonomic level. Furthermore, relative metabolic potentials of genes involved in many key ecological functions (for example, nitrogen and phosphate utilization, metals resistance and stress response) were extrapolated to increase under more acidic and metal-rich conditions, indicating a critical strategy of stress adaptation in these extraordinary communities. Collectively, our findings indicate that natural selection rather than geographic distance has a more crucial role in shaping the taxonomic and functional patterns of AMD microbial community that readily predicted by modeling methods and suggest that the model-based approach is essential to better understand natural acidophilic microbial communities.	2016	10	10.1038/ismej.2015.201
Fan, MC; Lin, YB; Huo, HB; Liu, Y; Zhao, L; Wang, ET; Chen, WM; Wei, GH	Microbial communities in riparian soils of a settling pond for mine drainage treatment	WATER RESEARCH	Mine drainage leads to serious contamination of soil. To assess the effects of mine drainage on microbial communities in riparian soils, we used an Illumina MiSeq platform to explore the soil microbial composition and diversity along a settling pond used for mine drainage treatment. Non-metric multidimensional scaling analysis showed that the microbial communities differed significantly among the four sampling zones (influent, upstream, downstream and effluent), but not seasonally. Constrained analysis of principal coordinates indicated heavy metals (zinc, lead and copper), total sulphur, pH and available potassium significantly influenced the microbial community compositions. Heavy metals were the key determinants separating the influent zone from the other three zones. Lower diversity indices were observed in the influent zone. However, more potential indicator species, related to sulphur and organic matter metabolism were found there, such as the sulphur-oxidizing genera Acidiferrobacter, Thermithiobacillus, Limnobacter, Thioprofundum and Thiovirga, and the sulphur-reducing genera Desulfotomaculum and Desulfobulbus; the organic matter degrading genera, Porphyrobacter and Paucimonas, were also identified. The results indicated that more microorganisms related to sulphur- and carbon-cycles may exist in soils heavily contaminated by mine drainage. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2016	96	10.1016/j.watres.2016.03.061
Zheng, YK; Qiao, XG; Miao, CP; Liu, K; Chen, YW; Xu, LH; Zhao, LX	Diversity, distribution and biotechnological potential of endophytic fungi	ANNALS OF MICROBIOLOGY	Endophytic fungi, living in the inner tissues of living plants, have attracted increasing attention among ecologists, taxonomists, chemists and agronomists. They are ubiquitously associated with almost all plants studied to date. Numerous studies have indicated that these fungi have an impressive array of biotechnological potential, such as enzyme production, biocontrol agents, plant-growth promoting agents, bioremediation, biodegradation, biotransformation, biosynthesis and nutrient cycling. These fungi may represent an underexplored reservoir of novel biological resources for exploitation in the pharmaceutical, industry and agriculture. This review focuses on new findings in isolation methods, biodiversity, ecological distribution and biotechnological potential.	2016	66	10.1007/s13213-015-1153-7
Liu, XY; Chen, BW; Chen, JH; Zou, LC; Zhang, MJ; Wen, JK; Liu, WY	Biogeographical distribution of acidophiles and their effects around the Zijinshan heap bioleaching plant	CHEMISTRY AND ECOLOGY	The Zijin heap bioleaching plant started operation by the end of 2005; due to the proximity of the Ting River, concerns rose about the migration of acidophiles outside of the heap. In this study, 53 soil samples and 51 liquid samples were collected, and the biogeographical distribution of acidophiles was investigated using clone libraries and real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR), the physicochemical characteristics were analysed by Inductively Coupled Plasma Optical Emission Spectrometry (ICP). The results indicated the bioleaching system had some influence on the surrounding environment. Both microbial community and physiochemical index emerged correlation with distance of sampling sites from bioleaching system, mainly limited in the zone 30 m outside bioleaching system. Correlation analysis indicated the migration of different acidophiles was influenced by different factors. Leptospirillum had higher migration capability than the other acidophiles, and such migration capability was one of the important influence factors for its distribution. Environment factors and survival ability were the key influence factors for Acidithiobacillus, Sulfobacillus and Ferroplasma to survive in the surrounding environment.	2016	32	10.1080/02757540.2016.1150456
Laas, P; Satova, E; Lips, I; Lips, U; Simm, J; Kisand, V; Metsis, M	Near-Bottom Hypoxia Impacts Dynamics of Bacterioplankton Assemblage throughout Water Column of the Gulf of Finland (Baltic Sea)	PLOS ONE	Over the past century the spread of hypoxia in the Baltic Sea has been drastic, reaching its arm into the easternmost sub-basin, the Gulf of Finland. The hydrographic and climatological properties of the gulf offer a broad suite of discrete niches for microbial communities. The current study explores spatiotemporal dynamics of bacterioplankton community in the Gulf of Finland using massively parallel sequencing of 16S rRNA fragments obtained by amplifying community DNA from spring to autumn period. The presence of redoxcline and drastic seasonal changes make spatiotemporal dynamics of bacterioplankton community composition (BCC) and abundances in such estuary remarkably complex. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study that analyses spatiotemporal dynamics of BCC in relation to phytoplankton bloom throughout the water column (and redoxcline), not only at the surface layer. We conclude that capability to survive (or benefit from) shifts between oxic and hypoxic conditions is vital adaptation for bacteria to thrive in such environments. Our results contribute to the understanding of emerging patterns in BCCs that occupy hydrogra-phically similar estuaries dispersed all over the world, and we suggest the presence of a global redox- and salinity-driven metacommunity. These results have important implications for understanding long-term ecological and biogeochemical impacts of hypoxia expansion in the Baltic Sea (and similar ecosystems), as well as global biogeography of bacteria specialized inhabiting similar ecosystems.	2016	11	10.1371/journal.pone.0156147
Li, W; Wang, MM; Wang, XG; Cheng, XL; Guo, JJ; Bian, XM; Cai, L	Fungal communities in sediments of subtropical Chinese seas as estimated by DNA metabarcoding	SCIENTIFIC REPORTS	Ribosomal RNA internal transcribed spacer-1 (ITS1) metabarcoding was used to investigate the distribution patterns of fungal communities and the factors influencing these patterns in subtropical Chinese seas, including the southern and northern Yellow Sea and the Bohai Sea. These seas were found to harbor high levels of fungal diversity, with 816 operational taxonomic units (OTUs) that span 130 known genera, 36 orders, 14 classes and 5 phyla. Ascomycota was the most abundant phylum, containing 72.18% and 79.61% of all OTUs and sequences, respectively, followed by Basidiomycota (19.98%, 18.64%), Zygomycota (1.10%, 0.11%), Chytridiomycota (0.25%, 0.04%) and Rozellomycota (0.12%, 0.006%). The compositions of fungal communities across these three sea regions were found to be vary, which may be attributed to sediment source, geographical distance, latitude and some environmental factors such as the temperature and salinity of bottom water, water depth, total nitrogen, and the ratio of total organic carbon to nitrogen. Among these environmental factors, the temperature of bottom water is the most important driver that governs the distribution patterns of fungal communities across the sampled seas. Our data also suggest that the cold-water mass of the Yellow Sea likely balances competitive relationships between fungal taxa rather than increasing species richness levels.	2016	6	10.1038/srep26528
Le Roux, X; Bouskill, NJ; Niboyet, A; Barthes, L; Dijkstra, P; Field, CB; Hungate, BA; Lerondelle, C; Pommier, T; Tang, JY; Terada, A; Tourna, M; Poly, F	Predicting the Responses of Soil Nitrite-Oxidizers to Multi-Factorial Global Change: A Trait-Based Approach	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Soil microbial diversity is huge and a few grams of soil contain more bacterial taxa than there are bird species on Earth. This high diversity often makes predicting the responses of soil bacteria to environmental change intractable and restricts our capacity to predict the responses of soil functions to global change. Here, using a long-term field experiment in a California grassland, we studied the main and interactive effects of three global change factors (increased atmospheric CO2 concentration, precipitation and nitrogen addition, and all their factorial combinations, based on global change scenarios for central California) on the potential activity, abundance and dominant taxa of soil nitrite-oxidizing bacteria (NOB). Using a trait-based model, we then tested whether categorizing NOB into a few functional groups unified by physiological traits enables understanding and predicting how soil NOB respond to global environmental change. Contrasted responses to global change treatments were observed between three main NOB functional types. In particular, putatively mixotrophic Nitrobacter, rare under most treatments, became dominant under the High CO2+Nitrogen+Precipitation treatment. The mechanistic trait-based model, which simulated ecological niches of NOB types consistent with previous ecophysiological reports, helped predicting the observed effects of global change on NOB and elucidating the underlying biotic and abiotic controls. Our results are a starting point for representing the overwhelming diversity of soil bacteria by a few functional types that can be incorporated into models of terrestrial ecosystems and biogeochemical processes.	2016	7	10.3389/fmicb.2016.00628
Hu, YOO; Karlson, B; Charvet, S; Andersson, AF	Diversity of Pico- to Mesoplankton along the 2000 km Salinity Gradient of the Baltic Sea	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Microbial plankton form the productive base of both marine and freshwater ecosystems and are key drivers of global biogeochemical cycles of carbon and nutrients. Plankton diversity is immense with representations from all major phyla within the three domains of life. So far, plankton monitoring has mainly been based on microscopic identification, which has limited sensitivity and reproducibility, not least because of the numerical majority of plankton being unidentifiable under the light microscope. High-throughput sequencing of taxonomic marker genes offers a means to identify taxa inaccessible by traditional methods; thus, recent studies have unveiled an extensive previously unknown diversity of plankton. Here, we conducted ultra-deep Illumina sequencing (average 105 sequences/sample) of rRNA gene amplicons of surface water eukaryotic and bacterial plankton communities sampled in summer along a 2000 km transect following the salinity gradient of the Baltic Sea. Community composition was strongly correlated with salinity for both bacterial and eukaryotic plankton assemblages, highlighting the importance of salinity for structuring the biodiversity within this ecosystem. In contrast, no clear trends in alpha-diversity for bacterial or eukaryotic communities could be detected along the transect. The distribution of major planktonic taxa followed expected patterns as observed in monitoring programs, but groups novel to the Baltic Sea were also identified, such as relatives to the coccolithophore Erniliana huxleyi detected in the northern Baltic Sea. This study provides the first ultra-deep sequencing-based survey on eukaryotic and bacterial plankton biogeography in the Baltic Sea.	2016	7	10.5589/fmicb.2016.00679
Cao, HC; Chen, RR; Wang, LB; Jiang, LL; Yang, F; Zheng, SX; Wang, GJ; Lin, XG	Soil pH, total phosphorus, climate and distance are the major factors influencing microbial activity at a regional spatial scale	SCIENTIFIC REPORTS	Considering the extensive functional redundancy in microbial communities and great difficulty in elucidating it based on taxonomic structure, studies on the biogeography of soil microbial activity at large spatial scale are as important as microbial community structure. Eighty-four soil samples were collected across a region from south to north China (about 1,000 km) to address the questions if microbial activity displays biogeographic patterns and what are driving forces. These samples represented different soil types, land use and climate. Redundancy analysis and nonmetric multidimensional scaling clearly revealed that soil microbial activities showed distinct differentiation at different sites over a regional spatial scale, which were strongly affected by soil pH, total P, rainfall, temperature, soil type and location. In addition, microbial community structure was greatly influenced by rainfall, location, temperature, soil pH and soil type and was correlated with microbial activity to some extent. Our results suggest that microbial activities display a clear geographic pattern that is greatly altered by geographic distance and reflected by climate, soil pH and total P over large spatial scales. There are common (distance, climate, pH and soil type) but differentiated aspects (TP, SOC and N) in the biogeography of soil microbial community structure and activity.	2016	6	10.1038/srep25815
Bertos-Fortis, M; Farnelid, HM; Lindh, MV; Casini, M; Andersson, A; Pinhassi, J; Legrand, C	Unscrambling Cyanobacteria Community Dynamics Related to Environmental Factors	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Future climate scenarios in the Baltic Sea project an increase of cyanobacterial bloom frequency and duration, attributed to eutrophication and climate change. Some cyanobacteria can be toxic and their impact on ecosystem services is relevant for a sustainable sea. Yet, there is limited understanding of the mechanisms regulating cyanobacterial diversity and biogeography. Here we unravel successional patterns and changes in cyanobacterial community structure using a 2-year monthly time series during the productive season in a 100 km coastal-offshore transect using microscopy and high-throughput sequencing of 16S rRNA gene fragments. A total of 565 cyanobacterial OTUs were found, of which 231 where filamentous/colonial and 334 picocyanobacterial. Spatial differences in community structure between coastal and offshore waters were minor. An epidemic population structure (dominance of a single cluster) was found for Aphanizomenon/Dolichospermum within the filamentous/colonial cyanobacterial community. In summer, this cluster simultaneously occurred with opportunistic clusters/OTUs, e.g., Nodulana spumigena and Pseudanabaena. Picocyanobacteria, Synechococcus/Cyanobium, formed a consistent but highly diverse group. Overall, the potential drivers structuring summer cyanobacterial communities were temperature and salinity. However, the different responses to environmental factors among and within genera suggest high niche specificity for individual OTUs. The recruitment and occurrence of potentially toxic filamentous/colonial clusters was likely related to disturbance such as mixing events and short-term shifts in salinity, and not solely dependent on increasing temperature and nitrogen-limiting conditions. Nutrients did not explain further the changes in cyanobacterial community composition. Novel occurrence patterns were identified as a strong seasonal succession revealing a tight coupling between the emergence of opportunistic picocyanobacteria and the bloom of filamentous/colonial clusters. These findings highlight that if environmental conditions can partially explain the presence of opportunistic picocyanobacteria, microbial and trophic interactions with filamentous/colonial cyanobacteria should also be considered as potential shaping factors for single-celled communities. Regional climate change scenarios in the Baltic Sea predict environmental shifts leading to higher temperature and lower salinity; conditions identified here as favorable for opportunistic filamentous/colonial cyanobacteria. Altogether, the diversity and complexity of cyanobacterial communities reported here is far greater than previously known, emphasizing the importance of microbial interactions between filamentous and picocyanobacteria in the context of environmental disturbances.	2016	7	10.3389/fmicb.2016.00625
Oh, J; Byrd, AL; Park, M; Kong, HH; Segre, JA	Temporal Stability of the Human Skin Microbiome	CELL	Biogeography and individuality shape the structural and functional composition of the human skin microbiome. To explore these factors contribution to skin microbial community stability, we generated metagenomic sequence data from longitudinal samples collected over months and years. Analyzing these samples using a multi-kingdom, reference-based approach, we found that despite the skins exposure to the external environment, its bacterial, fungal, and viral communities were largely stable over time. Site, individuality, and phylogeny were all determinants of stability. Foot sites exhibited the most variability; individuals differed in stability; and transience was a particular characteristic of eukaryotic viruses, which showed little site-specificity in colonization. Strain and single-nucleotide variant-level analysis showed that individuals maintain, rather than reacquire, prevalent microbes from the environment. Longitudinal stability of skin microbial communities generates hypotheses about colonization resistance and empowers clinical studies exploring alterations observed in disease states.	2016	165	10.1016/j.cell.2016.04.008
Guney, K; Durmus, A	Elliptical Antenna Array Synthesis Using Backtracking Search Optimisation Algorithm	DEFENCE SCIENCE JOURNAL	The design of the elliptical antenna arrays is relatively new research area in the antenna array community. Backtracking search optimisation algorithm (BSA) is employed for the synthesis of elliptical antenna arrays having different number of array elements. For this aim, BSA is used to calculate the optimum angular position and amplitude values of the array elements. BSA is a population-based iterative evolutionary algorithm. The remarkable properties of BSA are that it has a good optimisation performance, simple implementation structure, and few control parameters. The results of BSA are compared with those of self-adaptive differential evolution algorithm, firefly algorithm, biogeography based optimisation algorithm, and genetic algorithm. The results show that BSA can reach better solutions than the compared optimisation algorithms. Iterative performances of BSA are also compared with those of bacterial foraging algorithm and differential search algorithm.	2016	66	10.14429/dsj.66.9583
Fondi, M; Karkman, A; Tamminen, MV; Bosi, E; Virta, M; Fani, R; Alm, E; McInerney, JO	Every Gene Is Everywhere but the Environment Selects: Global Geolocalization of Gene Sharing in Environmental Samples through Network Analysis	GENOME BIOLOGY AND EVOLUTION	The spatial distribution of microbes on our planet is famously formulated in the Baas Becking hypothesis as everything is everywhere but the environment selects. While this hypothesis does not strictly rule out patterns caused by geographical effects on ecology and historical founder effects, it does propose that the remarkable dispersal potential of microbes leads to distributions generally shaped by environmental factors rather than geographical distance. By constructing sequence similarity networks from uncultured environmental samples, we show that microbial gene pool distributions are not influenced nearly as much by geography as ecology, thus extending the Bass Becking hypothesis from whole organisms to microbial genes. We find that gene pools are shaped by their broad ecological niche (such as sea water, fresh water, host, and airborne). We find that freshwater habitats act as a gene exchange bridge between otherwise disconnected habitats. Finally, certain antibiotic resistance genes deviate from the general trend of habitat specificity by exhibiting a high degree of cross-habitat mobility. The strong cross-habitat mobility of antibiotic resistance genes is a cause for concern and provides a paradigmatic example of the rate by which genes colonize new habitats when new selective forces emerge.	2016	8	10.1093/gbe/evw077
Rieux, A; Balloux, F	Inferences from tip-calibrated phylogenies: a review and a practical guide	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	Molecular dating of phylogenetic trees is a growing discipline using sequence data to co-estimate the timing of evolutionary events and rates of molecular evolution. All molecular-dating methods require converting genetic divergence between sequences into absolute time. Historically, this could only be achieved by associating externally derived dates obtained from fossil or biogeographical evidence to internal nodes of the tree. In some cases, notably for fast-evolving genomes such as viruses and some bacteria, the time span over which samples were collected may cover a significant proportion of the time since they last shared a common ancestor. This situation allows phylogenetic trees to be calibrated by associating sampling dates directly to the sequences representing the tips (terminal nodes) of the tree. The increasing availability of genomic data from ancient DNA extends the applicability of such tip-based calibration to a variety of taxa including humans, extinct megafauna and various microorganisms which typically have a scarce fossil record. The development of statistical models accounting for heterogeneity in different aspects of the evolutionary process while accommodating very large data sets (e. g. whole genomes) has allowed using tip-dating methods to reach inferences on divergence times, substitution rates, past demography or the age of specific mutations on a variety of spatiotemporal scales. In this review, we summarize the current state of the art of tip dating, discuss some recent applications, highlight common pitfalls and provide a how to guide to thoroughly perform such analyses.	2016	25	10.1111/mec.13586
Filker, S; Sommaruga, R; Vila, I; Stoeck, T	Microbial eukaryote plankton communities of high-mountain lakes from three continents exhibit strong biogeographic patterns	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	Microbial eukaryotes hold a key role in aquatic ecosystem functioning. Yet, their diversity in freshwater lakes, particularly in high-mountain lakes, is relatively unknown compared with the marine environment. Low nutrient availability, low water temperature and high ultraviolet radiation make most high-mountain lakes extremely challenging habitats for life and require specific molecular and physiological adaptations. We therefore expected that these ecosystems support a plankton diversity that differs notably from other freshwater lakes. In addition, we hypothesized that the communities under study exhibit geographic structuring. Our rationale was that geographic dispersal of small-sized eukaryotes in high-mountain lakes over continental distances seems difficult. We analysed hypervariable V4 fragments of the SSU rRNA gene to compare the genetic microbial eukaryote diversity in high-mountain lakes located in the European Alps, the Chilean Altiplano and the Ethiopian Bale Mountains. Microbial eukaryotes were not globally distributed corroborating patterns found for bacteria, multicellular animals and plants. Instead, the plankton community composition emerged as a highly specific fingerprint of a geographic region even on higher taxonomic levels. The intraregional heterogeneity of the investigated lakes was mirrored in shifts in microbial eukaryote community structure, which, however, was much less pronounced compared with interregional beta-diversity. Statistical analyses revealed that on a regional scale, environmental factors are strong predictors for plankton community structures in high-mountain lakes. While on long-distance scales (> 10 000 km), isolation by distance is the most plausible scenario, on intermediate scales (up to 6000 km), both contemporary environmental factors and historical contingencies interact to shift plankton community structures.	2016	25	10.1111/mec.13633
Zhang, BL; Wu, XK; Zhang, GS; Li, SY; Zhang, W; Chen, XM; Sun, LK; Zhang, BG; Liu, GX; Chen, T	The diversity and biogeography of the communities of Actinobacteria in the forelands of glaciers at a continental scale	ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH LETTERS	Glacier forelands, where the initially exposed area is unvegetated with minimal human influence, are an ideal place for research on the distributions and biogeography of microbial communities. Actinobacteria produce many bioactive substances and have important roles in soil development and biogeochemical cycling. However, little is known about the distribution and biogeography of Actinobacteria in glacier forelands. Therefore, we investigated the patterns of diversity and the biogeography of actinobacterial communities of the inhabited forefields of 5 glaciers in China. Of the bacteria, the mean relative abundance of Actinobacteria was 13.1%, and 6 classes were identified in the phylum Actinobacteria. The dominant class was Actinobacteria (57%), which was followed in abundance by Acidimicrobiia (19%) and Thermoleophilia (19%). When combined, the relative abundance of the other three classes, the MB-A2-108, Nitriliruptoria and Rubrobacteria, was only 2.4%. Abiogeographic pattern in the forelands of the 5 glaciers in China was not detected for actinobacterial communities. Compared with 7 other actinobacterial communities found in the forelands of glaciers globally, those in the Southern Hemisphere were significantly different from those in the Northern Hemisphere. Moreover, the communities were significantly different on the separate continents of the Northern Hemisphere. The dissimilarity of the actinobacterial communities increased with geographic distance (r=0.428, p=0.0003). Because of environmental factors, the effect of geography was clear when the distance exceeded a certain continent-level threshold. With the analysis of indicator species, we found that each genus had a geographic characteristic, which could explain why the communities with greater diversity were more strongly affected by biogeography.	2016	11	10.1088/1748-9326/11/5/054012
Staley, C; Sadowsky, MJ	Regional Similarities and Consistent Patterns of Local Variation in Beach Sand Bacterial Communities throughout the Northern Hemisphere	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Recent characterization of the bacterial community structure in beach sands has revealed patterns of biogeography similar to those observed in aquatic environments. Studies to date, however, have mainly focused on subtidal sediments from marine beaches. Here, we investigate the bacterial diversity, using Illumina-based sequencing of the V5-V6 region of the 16S rRNA gene, at 11 beaches representing those next to the Great Lakes, Florida, and the Pacific Ocean. The alpha diversity differed significantly among regions (P < 0.0001), while the within-region diversity was more similar. The beta diversity also differed by region (P < 0.001), where freshwater sands had significantly higher abundances of taxa within the Actinobacteria, Betaproteobacteria, and Verrucomicrobia than marine environments. In contrast, marine sands harbored greater abundances of Gammaproteobacteria and Planctomycetes, and those from Florida had more Deltaproteobacteria and Firmicutes. Marine beaches had significantly different phylogenetic community structures (P <= 0.018), but freshwater and Florida beaches showed fewer within-region phylogenetic differences. Furthermore, regionally distinct patterns in taxonomic variation were observed in backshore sands, which had communities distinct from those in nearshore sands (P < 0.001). Sample depth minimally influenced the community composition. The results of this study reveal distinct bacterial community structures in sand on a broad geographic scale but moderate regional similarity and suggest that local variation is primarily related to the distance from the shoreline. This study offers a novel comparison of the bacterial communities in freshwater and marine beach sands and provides an important basis for future comparisons and analyses to elucidate factors affecting microbial ecology in this underexplored environment. IMPORTANCE This study presents a large-scale geographic characterization of the bacterial communities present in beach sands. While previous studies have evaluated how environmental factors influence bacterial community composition, few have evaluated bacterial communities in freshwater sands. Furthermore, the use of a consistent methodology to characterize bacterial communities here allowed a novel comparison of communities across geographic regions. We reveal that while the community composition in sands at individual beaches is distinct, beach sands within the same region harbor similar assemblages of bacteria and these assemblages differ greatly between regions. In addition, moisture, associated with distance from the shoreline, strongly influences the bacteria present in sands and more strongly influences the bacteria present than sample depth does. Thus, the data presented here offer an important basis for a broader characterization of the ecology of bacteria in sands, which may also be relevant to public health and resource management initiatives.	2016	82	10.1128/AEM.00247-16
Kim, MS; Bae, JW	Spatial disturbances in altered mucosal and luminal gut viromes of diet-induced obese mice	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Gut microbial biogeography is a key feature of host-microbe relationships. In gut viral ecology, biogeography and responses to dietary intervention remain poorly understood. Here, we conducted a metagenomic study to determine the composition of the mucosal and luminal viromes of the gut and to evaluate the impact of a Western diet on gut viral ecology. We found that mucosal and luminal viral assemblages comprised predominantly temperate phages. The mucosal virome significantly differed from the luminal virome in low-fat diet-fed lean mice, where spatial variation correlated with bacterial microbiota from the mucosa and lumen. The mucosal and luminal viromes of high-fat, high-sucrose Western diet-fed obese mice were significantly enriched with temperate phages of the Caudovirales order. Interestingly, this community alteration occurred to a greater extent in the mucosa than lumen, leading to loss of spatial differences; however, these changes recovered after switching to a low-fat diet. Temperate phages enriched in the Western diet-induced obese mice were associated with the Bacilli, Negativicutes and Bacteroidia classes and temperate phages from the Bacteroidia class particularly encoded stress and niche-specific functions advantageous to bacterial host adaptation. This study illustrates a biogeographic view of the gut virome and phage-bacterial host connections under the diet-induced microbial dysbiosis.	2016	18	10.1111/1462-2920.13182
Chu, HY; Sun, HB; Tripathi, BM; Adams, JM; Huang, R; Zhang, YJ; Shi, Y	Bacterial community dissimilarity between the surface and subsurface soils equals horizontal differences over several kilometers in the western Tibetan Plateau	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Many studies have investigated patterns in the near-surface soil microbial community over large spatial scales. However, less is known about variation in subsurface (15-30 cm of depth) microbial communities. Here we studied depth profiles of microbial communities in high-elevation soils from Tibet. The relative abundance of Acidobacteria, Chloroflexi and Alphaproteobacteria was higher in near-surface layers, while the relative abundance of Actinobacteria, Gemmatimonadetes and Betaproteobacteria was higher in the subsurface samples. The microbial community structure was distinct between the surface and subsurface soil layers, strongly correlating with variation in total carbon (TC) and carbon to nitrogen ratio (C/N). The differences in the microbial community between the layers were about the same as the horizontal differences between sites separated by many kilometers. Overall, we found that TC and C/N were the best predictors for both surface and subsurface microbial community distribution. Exploration of the relative contribution of distance and environmental variables to community composition suggests that the contemporary environment is the primary driver of microbial distribution in this region. Reflecting niche conservatism in evolution, the microbial communities in each soil site and layer tended to be more phylogenetically clustered than expected by chance, and surface soil layer samples were more likely to be clustered than subsurface samples.	2016	18	10.1111/1462-2920.13236
Wang, L; Cao, Y; Wang, ET; Qiao, YJ; Jiao, S; Liu, ZS; Zhao, L; Wei, GH	Biodiversity and biogeography of rhizobia associated with common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) in Shaanxi Province	SYSTEMATIC AND APPLIED MICROBIOLOGY	The biodiversity and biogeography of rhizobia associated with bean in Shaanxi Province were investigated. A total of 194 bacterial isolates from bean nodules collected from 13 sampling sites were characterized based on phylogenetic analyses of the 16S rRNA gene, the housekeeping genes recA, glnII and atpD, and the symbiotic genes nodC and nifH. Fifteen genospecies belonging to the genera Rhizobium, Agrobacterium, Ensifer, Bradyrhizobium and Ochrobactrum were defined among the isolates, with Rhizobium sp. II, Agrobacterium sp. II, E. fredii and R. phaseoli being the dominant groups. Four symbiotic gene lineages corresponding to Rhizobium sp. I, Rhizobium sp. II, R. phaseoli and B. liaoningense were detected in the nodC and nifH sequence analyses, indicating different origins for the symbiotic genes and their co-evolution with the chromosome of the bacteria. Moreover, the Ensifer isolates harbored symbiotic genes closely related to bean-nodulating Pararhizobium giardinii, indicating possible lateral gene transfer from Rhizobium to Ensifer. Correlation of rhizobial community composition with moisture, temperature, intercropping, soil features and nutrients were detected. All the results demonstrated a great diversity of bean rhizobia in Shaanxi that might be due to the adaptable evolution of the bean-nodulating rhizobia subjected to the diverse ecological conditions in the area. (C) 2016 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.	2016	39	10.1016/j.syapm.2016.02.001
Llewellyn, MS; McGinnity, P; Dionne, M; Letourneau, J; Thonier, F; Carvalho, GR; Creer, S; Derome, N	The biogeography of the atlantic salmon (Salmo salar) gut microbiome	ISME JOURNAL	Although understood in many vertebrate systems, the natural diversity of host-associated microbiota has been little studied in teleosts. For migratory fishes, successful exploitation of multiple habitats may affect and be affected by the composition of the intestinal microbiome. We collected 96 Salmo salar from across the Atlantic encompassing both freshwater and marine phases. Dramatic differences between environmental and gut bacterial communities were observed. Furthermore, community composition was not significantly impacted by geography. Instead life-cycle stage strongly defined both the diversity and identity of microbial assemblages in the gut, with evidence for community destabilisation in migratory phases. Mycoplasmataceae phylotypes were abundantly recovered in all life-cycle stages. Patterns of Mycoplasmataceae phylotype recruitment to the intestinal microbial community among sites and life-cycle stages support a dual role for deterministic and stochastic processes in defining the composition of the S. salar gut microbiome.	2016	10	10.1038/ismej.2015.189
Cox, F; Newsham, KK; Bol, R; Dungait, JAJ; Robinson, CH	Not poles apart: Antarctic soil fungal communities show similarities to those of the distant Arctic	ECOLOGY LETTERS	Antarcticas extreme environment and geographical isolation offers a useful platform for testing the relative roles of environmental selection and dispersal barriers influencing fungal communities. The former process should lead to convergence in community composition with other cold environments, such as those in the Arctic. Alternatively, dispersal limitations should minimise similarity between Antarctica and distant northern landmasses. Using high-throughput sequencing, we show that Antarctica shares significantly more fungi with the Arctic, and more fungi display a bipolar distribution, than would be expected in the absence of environmental filtering. In contrast to temperate and tropical regions, there is relatively little endemism, and a strongly bimodal distribution of range sizes. Increasing southerly latitude is associated with lower endemism and communities increasingly dominated by fungi with widespread ranges. These results suggest that microorganisms with well-developed dispersal capabilities can inhabit opposite poles of the Earth, and dominate extreme environments over specialised local species.	2016	19	10.1111/ele.12587
Stone, BWG; Jackson, CR	Biogeographic Patterns Between Bacterial Phyllosphere Communities of the Southern Magnolia (Magnolia grandiflora) in a Small Forest	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	The phyllosphere presents a unique system of discrete and easily replicable surfaces colonized primarily by bacteria. However, the biogeography of bacteria in the phyllosphere is little understood, especially at small to intermediate scales. Bacterial communities on the leaves of 91 southern magnolia (Magnolia grandiflora) trees 1-452 m apart in a small forest plot were analyzed and fragments of the 16S ribosomal RNA (rRNA) gene sequenced using the Illumina platform. Assemblages were dominated by members of the Alphaproteobacteria, Bacteroidetes, and Acidobacteria. Patterns in community composition were measured by both relative abundance (theta) and presence-absence (Jaccard) dissimilarity metrics. Distance-based Morans eigenvector map analyses of the distance-decay relationship found a significant, positive relationship between each dissimilarity metric and significant eigenfunctions derived from geographic distance between trees, indicating trees that were closer together had more similar bacterial phyllosphere communities. Indirect gradient analyses revealed that several environmental parameters (canopy cover, tree elevation, and the slope and aspect of the ground beneath trees) were significantly related to multivariate ordination scores based on relative bacterial sequence abundances; however, these relationships were not significant when looking at the incidence of bacterial taxa. This suggests that bacterial growth and abundance in the phyllosphere is shaped by different assembly mechanisms than bacterial presence or absence. More broadly, this study demonstrates that the distance-decay relationship applies to phyllosphere communities at local scales, and that environmental parameters as well as neutral forces may both influence spatial patterns in the phyllosphere.	2016	71	10.1007/s00248-016-0738-4
Yang, J; Ma, L; Jiang, HC; Wu, G; Dong, HL	Salinity shapes microbial diversity and community structure in surface sediments of the Qinghai-Tibetan Lakes	SCIENTIFIC REPORTS	Investigating microbial response to environmental variables is of great importance for understanding of microbial acclimatization and evolution in natural environments. However, little is known about how microbial communities responded to environmental factors (e.g. salinity, geographic distance) in lake surface sediments of the Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau (QTP). In this study, microbial diversity and community structure in the surface sediments of nine lakes on the QTP were investigated by using the Illumina Miseq sequencing technique and the resulting microbial data were statistically analyzed in combination with environmental variables. The results showed total microbial community of the studied lakes was significantly correlated (r = 0.631, P < 0.001) with lake salinity instead of geographic distance. This suggests that lake salinity is more important than geographic distance in shaping the microbial diversity and community structure in the studied samples. In addition, the abundant and rare taxa (OTUs with relative abundance higher than 1% and lower than 0.01% within one sample, respectively) were significantly (P < 0.05) correlated (r = 0.427 and 0.783, respectively) with salinity, suggesting rare taxa might be more sensitive to salinity than their abundant counterparts, thus cautions should be taken in future when evaluating microbial response (abundant vs. rare sub-communities) to environmental conditions.	2016	6	10.1038/srep25078
Spitz, A; Gimmler, A; Stoeck, T; Zweig, KA; Horvat, EA	Assessing Low-Intensity Relationships in Complex Networks	PLOS ONE	Many large network data sets are noisy and contain links representing low-intensity relationships that are difficult to differentiate from random interactions. This is especially relevant for high-throughput data from systems biology, large-scale ecological data, but also for Web 2.0 data on human interactions. In these networks with missing and spurious links, it is possible to refine the data based on the principle of structural similarity, which assesses the shared neighborhood of two nodes. By using similarity measures to globally rank all possible links and choosing the top-ranked pairs, true links can be validated, missing links inferred, and spurious observations removed. While many similarity measures have been proposed to this end, there is no general consensus on which one to use. In this article, we first contribute a set of benchmarks for complex networks from three different settings (e-commerce, systems biology, and social networks) and thus enable a quantitative performance analysis of classic node similarity measures. Based on this, we then propose a new methodology for link assessment called z* that assesses the statistical significance of the number of their common neighbors by comparison with the expected value in a suitably chosen random graph model and which is a consistently top-performing algorithm for all benchmarks. In addition to a global ranking of links, we also use this method to identify the most similar neighbors of each single node in a local ranking, thereby showing the versatility of the method in two distinct scenarios and augmenting its applicability. Finally, we perform an exploratory analysis on an oceanographic plankton data set and find that the distribution of microbes follows similar biogeographic rules as those of macroorganisms, a result that rejects the global dispersal hypothesis for microbes.	2016	11	10.1371/journal.pone.0152536
Majewska, R; Convey, P; De Stefano, M	Summer Epiphytic Diatoms from Terra Nova Bay and Cape Evans (Ross Sea, Antarctica) - A Synthesis and Final Conclusions	PLOS ONE	Despite recent advances in polar marine biology and related fields, many aspects of the ecological interactions that are crucial for the functioning of Antarctic shallow water habitats remain poorly understood. Although epiphytic diatoms play an essential role in the Antarctic marine food web, basic information regarding their ecology, biodiversity and biogeography is largely unavailable. Here, we synthesise studies on Ross Sea epiphytic diatoms collected during 11 summer Antarctic expeditions between the years 1989/90 and 2011/12, presenting a full list of diatom taxa associated with three macroalgal species (Iridaea cordata, Phyllophora antarctica, and Plocamium cartilagineum) and their epiphytic sessile fauna. Diatom communities found during the three summer months at various depths and sampling stations differed significantly in terms of species composition, growth form structure and abundances. Densities ranged from 21 to >8000 cells mm(-2), and were significantly higher on the surface of epiphytic micro-fauna than on any of the macroalgal species examined. Generally, host organisms characterized by higher morphological heterogeneity (sessile micro-fauna, ramified Plocamium) supported richer diatom communities than those with more uniform surfaces (Iridaea). Differences between epiphytic communities associated with different macroalgae were reflected better in species composition than in growth form structure. The latter changed significantly with season, which was related strongly to the changing ice conditions. A general trend towards an increasing number of erect forms in deeper waters and tube-dwelling diatoms in the shallowest sites (2-5 m) was also observed. This study explores further important and largely previously unknown aspects of relationships and interactions between Antarctic epiphytic diatoms and their micro-and macro-environments.	2016	11	10.1371/journal.pone.0153254
Millard, AD; Pearce, D; Zwirglmaier, K	Biogeography of bacteriophages at four hydrothermal vent sites in the Antarctic based on g23 sequence diversity	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY LETTERS	In this study, which was carried out within the ChEsSO consortium project (Chemosynthetically driven ecosystems south of the Polar Front), we sampled two hydrothermal vent sites on the East Scotia Ridge, Scotia Sea, one in the Kemp Caldera, South Sandwich Arc and one in the Bransfield Strait, north-west of the Antarctic Peninsula, which exhibit strong differences in their chemical characteristics. We compared a subset of their bacteriophage population by Sanger- and 454-sequencing of g23, which codes for the major capsid protein of T4likeviruses. We found that the sites differ vastly in their bacteriophage diversity, which reflects the differences in the chemical conditions and therefore putatively the differences in microbial hosts living at these sites. Comparing phage diversity in the vent samples to other aquatic samples, the vent samples formed a distinct separate cluster, which also included the non-vent control samples that were taken several hundred meters above the vent chimneys. This indicates that the influence of the vents on the microbial population and therefore also the bacteriophage population extends much further than anticipated.	2016	363	10.1093/femsle/fnw043
Harke, MJ; Steffen, MM; Gobler, CJ; Otten, TG; Wilhelm, SW; Wood, SA; Paerl, HW	A review of the global ecology, genomics, and biogeography of the toxic cyanobacterium, Microcystis spp.	HARMFUL ALGAE	This review summarizes the present state of knowledge regarding the toxic, bloom-forming cyanobacterium, Microcystis, with a specific focus on its geographic distribution, toxins, genomics, phylogeny, and ecology. A global analysis found documentation suggesting geographic expansion of Microcystis, with recorded blooms in at least 108 countries, 79 of which have also reported the hepatatoxin microcystin. The production of microcystins (originally Fast-Death Factor) by Microcystis and factors that control synthesis of this toxin are reviewed, as well as the putative ecophysiological roles of this metabolite. Molecular biological analyses have provided significant insight into the ecology and physiology of Microcystis, as well as revealed the highly dynamic, and potentially unstable, nature of its genome. A genetic sequence analysis of 27 Microcystis species, including 15 complete/draft genomes are presented. Using the strictest biological definition of what constitutes a bacterial species, these analyses indicate that all Microcystis species warrant placement into the same species complex since the average nucleotide identity values were above 95%, 16S rRNA nucleotide identity scores exceeded 99%, and DNA DNA hybridization was consistently greater than 70%. The review further provides evidence from around the globe for the key role that both nitrogen and phosphorus play in controlling Microcystis bloom dynamics, and the effect of elevated temperature on bloom intensification. Finally, highlighted is the ability of Microcystis assemblages to minimize their mortality losses by resisting grazing by zooplankton and bivalves, as well as viral lysis, and discuss factors facilitating assemblage resilience. (C) 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2016	54	10.1016/j.hal.2015.12.007
Musleh, SS; Gomez-Uchida, D; Espinoza, C; Ruiz-Tagle, N; Fonseca, A; Gallardo, VA	Molecular taxonomy and community dynamics of Actinobacteria in marine sediments off central Chile	REVISTA DE BIOLOGIA MARINA Y OCEANOGRAFIA	We used amplicon sequencing of the 16S rRNA gene to characterize the diversity and assess temporal and spatial patterns of Actinobacteria operational taxonomic units (OTUs) extracted from sediments of the Humboldt Sulfuretum located off the coast of central Chile. The sediment of this zone is rich in sulfur compounds and organic material and supports a vast microbial community that experiences seasonal changes in response to contrasting oceanographic regimes. We distinguished 498 OTUs distributed among 7 orders, 47 families, and 122 genera (5 of these have been widely recognized for their biotechnological applications), and 56 species. The temporal analyses indicated that some OTUs underwent significant temporal changes in abundance, richness, and diversity that allowed samples to be grouped by sampling dates (seasons) but not by sampling depth or location. Since Actinobacteria are mostly aerobic, higher concentrations of dissolved oxygen near the bottom during the austral autumn-winter seasons result in a more benign environment for this phylum than the upwelling-favorable spring-summer seasons when waters over the shelf are oxygen-deficient. To evaluate the taxonomic diversity and inquire into the community dynamic of Actinobacteria present in the Humboldt Sulfuretum and reported as a potentially untapped source for secondary metabolites this work benefited from culture-independent (molecular) techniques.	2016	51	10.4067/S0718-19572016000100009
Hu, SK; Campbell, V; Connell, P; Gellene, AG; Liu, ZF; Terrado, R; Caron, DA	Protistan diversity and activity inferred from RNA and DNA at a coastal ocean site in the eastern North Pacific	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Microbial eukaryotes fulfill key ecological positions in marine food webs. Molecular approaches that connect protistan diversity and biogeography to their diverse metabolisms will greatly improve our understanding of marine ecosystem function. The majority of molecular-based studies to date use 18S rRNA gene sequencing to characterize natural microbial assemblages, but this approach does not necessarily discriminate between active and non-active cells. We incorporated RNA sequencing into standard 18S rRNA gene sequence surveys with the purpose of assessing those members of the protistan community contributing to biogeochemical cycling (active organisms), using the ratio of cDNA (reverse transcribed from total RNA) to 18S rRNA gene sequences within major protistan taxonomic groups. Trophically important phytoplankton, such as diatoms and chlorophytes exhibited seasonal trends in relative activity. Additionally, both radiolaria and ciliates displayed previously unreported high relative activities below the euphotic zone. This study sheds new light on the relative metabolic activity of specific protistan groups and how microbial communities respond to changing environmental conditions.	2016	92	10.1093/femsec/fiw050
Zhao, F; Xu, KD	Biodiversity patterns of soil ciliates along salinity gradients	EUROPEAN JOURNAL OF PROTISTOLOGY	We evaluated ciliate diversity in saline soils with a salinity range from 6.5 to 65 psu by the morphological method of the Ludox-quantitative protargol stain (QPS) and the molecular techniques of ciliate-specific clone library and denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis. No active ciliates could be detected with the Ludox-QPS method, while high molecular diversity of ciliates was found. The highest ciliate molecular diversity was obtained from the soil at salinity of 8.9 psu, moderate diversity was found at salinity of 6.5 psu, and the diversity sharply decreased at salinity of 50.5 psu. By contrast, the number of ciliate classes clearly decreased with increasing soil salinity: six, five, four and two classes from sites with salinity of 6.5 psu, 8.9 psu, 29.5 psu and 50.5 psu, respectively. Ciliate diversity pattern is different from that of bacteria, whose diversity is also high in extremely saline environments. Meanwhile, the composition of ciliate community was significantly different along salinity gradient. Colpodea and Oligohymenophorea were diverse in soils at salinity less than 29.5 psu, while absent in soils with salinity above 50.5 psu. BIOENV analysis indicated soil salinity and water content were the main factors regulating the distribution of ciliates in saline soils. (C) 2016 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.	2016	53	10.1016/j.ejop.2015.12.006
Colangelo-Lillis, J; Wing, BA; Whyte, LG	Low viral predation pressure in cold hypersaline Arctic sediments and limits on lytic replication	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY REPORTS	Viruses are ubiquitous drivers of microbial ecology and evolution and contribute to biogeochemical cycling. Attention to these attributes has been more substantial for marine viruses than viruses of other environments. Microscopy-based investigation of the viral communities from two cold, hypersaline Arctic springs was undertaken to explore the effects of these conditions on microbe-viral ecology. Sediments and water samples were collected along transects from each spring, from anoxic spring outlets through oxygenated downstream channels. Viral abundance, virus-microbe ratios and modelled virus-microbe contact rates were lower than comparable aqueous and sedimentary environments and most similar to deep subsurface sediments. No individual cell from either spring was visibly infected. Viruses in these springs appear to play a smaller role in controlling microbial populations through lytic activity than in marine water column or surface sedimentary environments. Relief from viral predation indicates the microbial communities are primarily controlled by nutrient limitation. The similarity of these springs to deep subsurface sediments suggests a biogeographic divide in viral replication strategy in marine sediments.	2016	8	10.1111/1758-2229.12375
Goberna, M; Verdu, M	Predicting microbial traits with phylogenies	ISME JOURNAL	Phylogeny reflects genetic and phenotypic traits in Bacteria and Archaea. The phylogenetic conservatism of microbial traits has prompted the application of phylogeny-based algorithms to predict unknown trait values of extant taxa based on the traits of their evolutionary relatives to estimate, for instance, rRNA gene copy numbers, gene contents or tolerance to abiotic conditions. Unlike the macrobial world, microbial ecologists face scenarios potentially compromising the accuracy of trait reconstruction methods, as, for example, extremely large phylogenies and limited information on the traits of interest. We review 990 bacterial and archaeal traits from the literature and support that phylogenetic trait conservatism is widespread through the tree of life, while revealing that it is generally weak for ecologically relevant phenotypic traits and high for genetically complex traits. We then perform a simulation exercise to assess the accuracy of phylogeny-based trait predictions in common scenarios faced by microbial ecologists. Our simulations show that ca. 60% of the variation in phylogeny-based trait predictions depends on the magnitude of the trait conservatism, the number of species in the tree, the proportion of species with unknown trait values and the mean distance in the tree to the nearest neighbour with a known trait value. Results are similar for both binary and continuous traits. We discuss these results under the light of the reviewed traits and provide recommendations for the use of phylogeny-based trait predictions for microbial ecologists.	2016	10	10.1038/ismej.2015.171
Walsh, EA; Kirkpatrick, JB; Rutherford, SD; Smith, DC; Sogin, M; DHondt, S	Bacterial diversity and community composition from seasurface to subseafloor	ISME JOURNAL	We investigated compositional relationships between bacterial communities in the water column and those in deep-sea sediment at three environmentally distinct Pacific sites (two in the Equatorial Pacific and one in the North Pacific Gyre). Through pyrosequencing of the v4-v6 hypervariable regions of the 16S ribosomal RNA gene, we characterized 450 104 pyrotags representing 29 814 operational taxonomic units (OTUs, 97% similarity). Hierarchical clustering and non-metric multidimensional scaling partition the samples into four broad groups, regardless of geographic location: a photic-zone community, a subphotic community, a shallow sedimentary community and a subseafloor sedimentary community (>= 1.5 meters below seafloor). Abundance-weighted community compositions of water-column samples exhibit a similar trend with depth at all sites, with successive epipelagic, mesopelagic, bathypelagic and abyssopelagic communities. Taxonomic richness is generally highest in the water-column O-2 minimum zone and lowest in the subseafloor sediment. OTUs represented by abundant tags in the subseafloor sediment are often present but represented by few tags in the water column, and represented by moderately abundant tags in the shallow sediment. In contrast, OTUs represented by abundant tags in the water are generally absent from the subseafloor sediment. These results are consistent with (i) dispersal of marine sedimentary bacteria via the ocean, and (ii) selection of the subseafloor sedimentary community from within the community present in shallow sediment.	2016	10	10.1038/ismej.2015.175
Lohan, KMP; Fleischer, RC; Carney, KJ; Holzer, KK; Ruiz, GM	Amplicon-Based Pyrosequencing Reveals High Diversity of Protistan Parasites in Ships Ballast Water: Implications for Biogeography and Infectious Diseases	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Ships ballast water (BW) commonly moves macroorganisms and microorganisms across the worlds oceans and along coasts; however, the majority of these microbial transfers have gone undetected. We applied high-throughput sequencing methods to identify microbial eukaryotes, specifically emphasizing the protistan parasites, in ships BW collected from vessels calling to the Chesapeake Bay (Virginia and Maryland, USA) from European and Eastern Canadian ports. We utilized tagged-amplicon 454 pyrosequencing with two general primer sets, amplifying either the V4 or V9 domain of the small subunit (SSU) of the ribosomal RNA (rRNA) gene complex, from total DNA extracted from water samples collected from the ballast tanks of bulk cargo vessels. We detected a diverse group of protistan taxa, with some known to contain important parasites in marine systems, including Apicomplexa (unidentified apicomplexans, unidentified gregarines, Cryptosporidium spp.), Dinophyta (Blastodinium spp., Euduboscquella sp., unidentified syndinids, Karlodinium spp., Syndinium spp.), Perkinsea (Parvilucifera sp.), Opisthokonta (Ichthyosporea sp., Pseudoperkinsidae, unidentified ichthyosporeans), and Stramenopiles (Labyrinthulomycetes). Further characterization of groups with parasitic taxa, consisting of phylogenetic analyses for four taxa (Cryptosporidium spp., Parvilucifera spp., Labyrinthulomycetes, and Ichthyosporea), revealed that sequences were obtained from both known and novel lineages. This study demonstrates that high-throughput sequencing is a viable and sensitive method for detecting parasitic protists when present and transported in the ballast water of ships. These data also underscore the potential importance of human-aided dispersal in the biogeography of these microbes and emerging diseases in the worlds oceans.	2016	71	10.1007/s00248-015-0684-6
Liu, JJ; Sui, YY; Yu, ZH; Yao, Q; Shi, Y; Chu, HY; Jin, J; Liu, XB; Wang, GH	Diversity and distribution patterns of acidobacterial communities in the black soil zone of northeast China	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	Although Acidobacteria are ubiquitous and are commonly one of the most abundant bacterial phyla in soils, knowledge regarding their diversity and distribution is still limited. Our previous studies discovered the biogeographical distribution patterns of bacterial and fungal communities in the black soil zone of northeast China. In this study, we further investigated the diversity and composition of acidobacterial communities generated with the Acidobacteria-specific primers ACIDO/342r in the same soil samples using quantitative PCR and Illumina MiSeq sequencing methods. A total of 412,203 acidobacterial 16S rRNA gene sequences were obtained from 26 soil samples that were collected from arable lands across the black soil zone. These sequences belonged to 21 subgroups, and GP1, GP3, GP4 and GP6 were the most abundant subgroups, accounting for 22.63%, 17.17%, 23.82% and 27.47% of acidobacterial sequences across all soils, respectively. The abundance of Acidobacteria displayed a more significant positive correlation with soil carbon content than with soil pH, and the relative abundance of certain subgroups was significantly positive or negative related with soil pH. The OTU richness, phylogenetic diversity and community composition of Acidobacteria were significantly correlated with soil pH. A variance partitioning analysis showed that the soil pH contributed 25% of the community variation, while the geographic distance explained only approximately 5% of the variation. These results indicated that soil pH was a main factor structuring acidobacterial communities in the black soil zone of northeast China. Our results also suggested that the Acidobacteria-specific primers could be better used for studying the distribution of acidobacterial communities in soils. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2016	95	10.1016/j.soilbio.2015.12.021
Jiang, YJ; Liang, YT; Li, CM; Wang, F; Sui, YY; Suvannang, N; Zhou, JZ; Sun, B	Crop rotations alter bacterial and fungal diversity in paddy soils across East Asia	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	Rice ecosystems are distributed broadly from temperate to tropical regions, but little is known about the underlying mechanisms shaping microbial communities and their network structure in paddy soils at the continental scale. Soil samples were collected from paddy fields across East Asia representing four types of crop rotations: single rice, rice-wheat rotation, double rice, and rice-legume-rice rotation. Here, we describe the roles that crop rotations, environmental heterogeneity and geographical distance play in determining the spatial distribution of microbial communities in paddy soils across East Asia. Our survey revealed remarkable differences in the diversity and composition of microbial operational taxonomic units (OTUs) among four crop rotations. The shared cosmopolitan OTUs Rhizobiales bacterium (genus Bradyrhizobium) and Hypocreales fungus played key-species roles in the ecological networks. A steeper slope of distance decay for the fungal samples compared with the bacterial samples implies a faster turnover in fungal OTU composition across geographical zones. Bacterial communities were affected by soil environmental heterogeneity to an extent that overwhelmed the effect of geographical distance, whereas fungal communities were better predicted by geographical distance. The diversity and composition of bacterial and fungal communities corresponded strongly to soil pH but less strongly to total nitrogen. Remarkably, crop rotations played a key role in determining the changes in microbial diversity, community composition and networks. Taken together, these results provide a baseline ecological framework with which to pursue future research on soil microbial function in paddy soils. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2016	95	10.1016/j.soilbio.2016.01.007
Roy, C; Alam, M; Mandal, S; Haldar, PK; Bhattacharya, S; Mukherjee, T; Roy, R; Rameez, MJ; Misra, AK; Chakraborty, R; Nanda, AK; Mukhopadhyay, SK; Ghosh, W	Global Association between Thermophilicity and Vancomycin Susceptibility in Bacteria	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Exploration of the aquatic microbiota of several circum-neutral (6.0-8.5 pH) mid-temperature (55-85 degrees C) springs revealed rich diversities of phylogenetic relatives of mesophilic bacteria, which surpassed the diversity of the truly-thermophilic taxa. To gain insight into the potentially-thermophilic adaptations of the phylogenetic relatives of Gram-negative mesophilic bacteria detected in culture-independent investigations we attempted pure-culture isolation by supplementing the enrichment media with 5011,g ml(-1) vancomycin. Surprisingly, this Gram-positive-specific antibiotic eliminated the entire culturable-diversity of chemoorganotrophic and sulfur-chemolithotrophic bacteria present in the tested hot water inocula. Moreover, it also killed all the Gram-negative hot-spring isolates that were obtained in vancomycin-free media. Concurrent literature search for the description of Gram-negative thermophilic bacteria revealed that at least 16 of them were reportedly vancomycin-susceptible. While these data suggested that vancomycin-susceptibility could be a global trait of thermophilic bacteria (irrespective of their taxonomy, biogeography and Gram-character), MALDI Mass Spectroscopy of the peptidoglycans of a few Gram-negative thermophilic bacteria revealed that tandem alanines were present in the fourth and fifth positions of their muropeptide precursors (MPPs). Subsequent phylogenetic analyses revealed a close affinity between the D-alanine-D-alanine ligases (Ddl) of taxonomically-diverse Gram-negative thermophiles and the thermostable Ddl protein of Thermotoga maritime, which is well-known for its high specificity for alanine over other amino acids. The Ddl tree further illustrated a divergence between the homologs of Gram-negative thermophiles and mesophiles, which broadly coincided with vancomycin-susceptibility and vancomycin-resistance respectively. It was thus hypothesized that thermophilic Ddls have been evolutionarily selected to favor a D-ala-D-ala bonding. However, preference for D-ala-D-ala-terminated MPPs does not singlehandedly guarantee vancomycin susceptibility of thermophilic bacteria as the large and relatively-hydrophilic vancomycin molecule has to cross the outer membrane before it can inhibit peptidoglycan biosynthesis. Literature shows that many mesophilic Gram-negative bacteria also have D-ala-D-ala-terminated MPPs, but they still remain resistant to vancomycin due to the relative impermeability of their membranes. But the global vancomycin-susceptibility phenotype of thermophilic bacteria itself testifies that the drug crosses the membrane in all these cases. As a corollary, it seems quite likely that the outer membranes of thermophilic bacteria have some yet-unknown characteristic feature(s) that invariably ensures the entry of vancomycin.	2016	7	10.3389/fmicb.2016.00412
Godon, JJ; Arulazhagan, P; Steyer, JP; Hamelin, J	Vertebrate bacterial gut diversity: size also matters	BMC ECOLOGY	Background: One of the central issues in microbial ecology is to understand the parameters that drive diversity. Among these parameters, size has often been considered to be the main driver in many different ecosystems. Surprisingly, the influence of size on gut microbial diversity has not yet been investigated, and so far in studies reported in the literature only the influences of age, diet, phylogeny and digestive tract structures have been considered. This study explicitly challenges the underexplored relationship connecting gut volume and bacterial diversity. Results: The bacterial diversity of 189 faeces produced by 71 vertebrate species covering a body mass range of 5.6 log. The animals comprised mammals, birds and reptiles. The diversity was evaluated based on the Simpson Diversity Index extracted from 16S rDNA gene fingerprinting patterns. Diversity presented an increase along with animal body mass following a power law with a slope z of 0.338 +/- 0.027, whatever the age, phylogeny, diet or digestive tract structure. Conclusions: The results presented here suggest that gut volume cannot be neglected as a major driver of gut microbial diversity. The characteristics of the gut microbiota follow general principles of biogeography that arise in many ecological systems.	2016	16	10.1186/s12898-016-0071-2
Tang, H; Shi, XX; Wang, XF; Hao, HH; Zhang, XM; Zhang, LP	Environmental Controls Over Actinobacteria Communities in Ecological Sensitive Yanshan Mountains Zone	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	The Yanshan Mountains are one of the oldest mountain ranges in the world. They are located in an ecologically sensitive zone in northern China near the Hu Huanyong Line. In this metagenomic study, we investigated the diversity of Actinobacteria in soils at 10 sites (YS1-YS10) on the Yanshan Mountains. First, we assessed the effect of different soil prtreatment on Actinobacteria recovery. With the soil pretreatment method: air drying of the soil sample, followed by exposure to 120 degrees C for 1 h, we observed the higher Actinobacteria diversity in a relatively small number of clone libraries. No significant differences were observed in the Actinobacterial diversity of soils from sites YS2, YS3, YS4, YS6, YS8, YS9, or YS10 (P > 0.1). However, there were differences (P < 0.05) from the YS7 site and other sites, especially in response to environmental change. And we observed highly significant differences (P < 0.001) in Actinobacterial diversity of the soil from YS7 and that from YS4 and YS8 sites.. The climatic characteristics of mean active accumulated temperature, annual mean precipitation, and annual mean temperature, and biogeochemical data of total phosphorus contributed to the diversity of Actinobacterial communities in soils at YS1, YS3, YS4, and YS5 sites. Compared to the climatic factors, the biogeochemical factors mostly contributed in shaping the Actinobacterial community. This work provides evidence that the diversity of Actinobacterial communities in soils from the Yashan Mountains show regional biogeographic patterns and that community membership change along the north-south distribution of the Hu Huanyong Line.	2016	7	10.3389/fmicb.2016.00343
de Carcer, DA; Pedros-Alio, C; Pearce, DA; Alcami, A	Composition and Interactions among Bacterial, Microeukaryotic, and T4-like Viral Assemblages in Lakes from Both Polar Zones	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	In this study we assess global biogeography and correlation patterns among three components of microbial life: bacteria, microeukaryotes, and T4-like myoviruses. In addition to environmental and biogeographical considerations, we have focused our study on samples from high-latitude pristine lakes from both poles, since these simple island-like ecosystems represent ideal ecological models to probe the relationships among microbial components and with the environment. Bacterial assemblages were dominated by members of the same groups found to dominate freshwater ecosystems elsewhere, and microeukaryotic assemblages were dominated by photosynthetic microalgae. Despite inter-lake variations in community composition, the overall percentages of OTUs shared among sites was remarkable, indicating that many microeukaryotic, bacterial, and viral OTUs are globally-distributed. We observed an intriguing negative correlation between bacterial and microeukaryotic diversity values. Notably, our analyses show significant global correlations between bacterial and microeukaryotic community structures, and between the phylogenetic compositions of bacterial and T4-like virus assemblages. Overall, environmental filtering emerged as the main factor driving community structures.	2016	7	10.3382/finicb.2016.00337
Loudon, AH; Venkataraman, A; Van Treuren, W; Woodhams, DC; Parfrey, LW; McKenzie, VJ; Knight, R; Schmidt, TM; Harris, RN	Vertebrate Hosts as Islands: Dynamics of Selection, Immigration, Loss, Persistence, and Potential Function of Bacteria on Salamander Skin	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Skin bacterial communities can protect amphibians from a fungal pathogen; however, little is known about how these communities are maintained. We used a neutral model of community ecology to identify bacteria that are maintained on salamanders by selection or by dispersal from a bacterial reservoir (soil) and ecological drift. We found that 75% (9/12) of bacteria that were consistent with positive selection, <1% of bacteria that were consistent with random dispersal and none of the bacteria that were consistent under negative selection had a 97% or greater match to antifungal isolates. Additionally we performed an experiment where salamanders were either provided or denied a bacterial reservoir and estimated immigration and loss (emigration and local extinction) rates of bacteria on salamanders in both treatments. Loss was strongly related to bacterial richness, suggesting competition is important for structuring the community. Bacteria closely related to antifungal isolates were more likely to persist on salamanders with or without a bacterial reservoir, suggesting they had a competitive advantage. Furthermore, over-represented and under-represented operational taxonomic units (OTUs) had similar persistence on salamanders when a bacterial reservoir was present. However, under-represented OTUs were less likely to persist in the absence of a bacterial reservoir, suggesting that the over-represented and under-represented bacteria were selected against or for on salamanders through time. Our findings from the neutral model, migration and persistence analyses show that bacteria that exhibit a high similarity to antifungal isolates persist on salamanders, which likely protect hosts against pathogens and improve fitness. This research is one of the first to apply ecological theory to investigate assembly of host associated-bacterial communities, which can provide insights for probiotic bioaugmentation as a conservation strategy against disease.	2016	7	10.3389/fmicb.2015.00333
Miyake, S; Ngugi, DK; Stingl, U	Phylogenetic Diversity, Distribution, and Cophylogeny of Giant Bacteria (Epulopiscium) with their Surgeonfish Hosts in the Red Sea	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Epulopisclurn is a group of giant bacteria found in high abundance in intestinal tracts of herbivorous surgeonfish. Despite their peculiarly large cell size (can be up to 600 mu m), extreme polyploidy (some with over 100,000 genome copies per cell) and viviparity (whereby mother cells produce live offspring), details about their diversity, distribution or their role in the host gut are lacking. Previous studies have highlighted the existence of morphologically distinct Epulopiscium cell types (defined as morphotypes A to J) in some surgeonfish genera, but the corresponding genetic diversity and distribution among other surgeonfishes remain mostly unknown. Therefore, we investigated the phylogenetic diversity of Epulopiscium, distribution and co-occurrence in multiple hosts. Here, we identified eleven new phylogenetic clades, six of which were also morphologically characterized. Three of these novel clades were phylogenetically and morphologically similar to cigar-shaped type A1 cells, found in a wide range of surgeonfishes including Acanthurus nigrofuscus, while three were similar to smaller, rod shaped type E that has not been phylogenetically classified thus far. Our results also confirmed that biogeography appears to have relatively little influence on Epulopiscium diversity, as clades found in the Great Barrier Reef and Hawaii were also recovered from the Red Sea. Although multiple symbiont clades inhabited a given species of host surgeonfish and multiple host species possessed a given symbiont clade, statistical analysis of host and symbiont phylogenies indicated significant cophylogeny, which in turn suggests co-evolutionary relationships. A cluster analysis of Epulopiscium sequences from previously published amplicon sequencing dataset revealed a similar pattern, where specific clades were consistently found in high abundance amongst closely related surgeonfishes. Differences in abundance may indicate specialization of clades to certain gut environments reflected by inferred differences in the host diets. Overall, our analysis identified a large phylogenetic diversity of Epulopiscium (up to 10% sequence divergence of 16S rRNA genes), which lets us hypothesize that there are multiple species that are spread across guts of different host species.	2016	7	10.3389/fmicb.2016.00285
Sangwan, N; Xia, FF; Gilbert, JA	Recovering complete and draft population genomes from metagenome datasets	MICROBIOME	Assembly of metagenomic sequence data into microbial genomes is of fundamental value to improving our understanding of microbial ecology and metabolism by elucidating the functional potential of hard-to-culture microorganisms. Here, we provide a synthesis of available methods to bin metagenomic contigs into species-level groups and highlight how genetic diversity, sequencing depth, and coverage influence binning success. Despite the computational cost on application to deeply sequenced complex metagenomes (e.g., soil), covarying patterns of contig coverage across multiple datasets significantly improves the binning process. We also discuss and compare current genome validation methods and reveal how these methods tackle the problem of chimeric genome bins i.e., sequences from multiple species. Finally, we explore how population genome assembly can be used to uncover biogeographic trends and to characterize the effect of in situ functional constraints on the genome-wide evolution.	2016	4	10.1186/s40168-016-0154-5
Andam, CP; Doroghazi, JR; Campbell, AN; Kelly, PJ; Choudoir, MJ; Buckley, DH	A Latitudinal Diversity Gradient in Terrestrial Bacteria of the Genus Streptomyces	MBIO	We show that Streptomyces biogeography in soils across North America is influenced by the regional diversification of microorganisms due to dispersal limitation and genetic drift. Streptomyces spp. form desiccation-resistant spores, which can be dispersed on the wind, allowing for a strong test of whether dispersal limitation governs patterns of terrestrial microbial diversity. We employed an approach that has high sensitivity for determining the effects of genetic drift. Specifically, we examined the genetic diversity and phylogeography of physiologically similar Streptomyces strains isolated from geographically distributed yet ecologically similar habitats. We found that Streptomyces beta diversity scales with geographic distance and both beta diversity and phylogenetic diversity manifest in a latitudinal diversity gradient. This pattern of Streptomyces biogeography resembles patterns seen for diverse species of plants and animals, and we therefore evaluated these data in the context of ecological and evolutionary hypotheses proposed to explain latitudinal diversity gradients. The data are consistent with the hypothesis that niche conservatism limits dispersal, and historical patterns of glaciation have limited the time for speciation in higher-latitude sites. Most notably, higher-latitude sites have lower phylogenetic diversity, higher phylogenetic clustering, and evidence of range expansion from lower latitudes. In addition, patterns of beta diversity partition with respect to the glacial history of sites. Hence, the data support the hypothesis that extant patterns of Streptomyces biogeography have been driven by historical patterns of glaciation and are the result of demographic range expansion, dispersal limitation, and regional diversification due to drift. IMPORTANCE Biogeographic patterns provide insight into the evolutionary and ecological processes that govern biodiversity. However, the evolutionary and ecological processes that govern terrestrial microbial diversity remain poorly characterized. We evaluated the biogeography of the genus Streptomyces to show that the diversity of terrestrial bacteria is governed by many of the same processes that govern the diversity of many plant and animal species. While bacteria of the genus Streptomyces are a preeminent source of antibiotics, their evolutionary history, biogeography, and biodiversity remain poorly characterized. The observations we describe provide insight into the drivers of Streptomyces biodiversity and the processes that underlie microbial diversification in terrestrial habitats.	2016	7	10.1128/mBio.02200-15
Purves, K; Macintyre, L; Brennan, D; Hreggvidsson, GO; Kuttner, E; Asgeirsdottir, ME; Young, LC; Green, DH; Edrada-Ebel, R; Duncan, KR	Using Molecular Networking for Microbial Secondary Metabolite Bioprospecting	METABOLITES	The oceans represent an understudied resource for the isolation of bacteria with the potential to produce novel secondary metabolites. In particular, actinomyces are well known to produce chemically diverse metabolites with a wide range of biological activities. This study characterised spore-forming bacteria from both Scottish and Antarctic sediments to assess the influence of isolation location on secondary metabolite production. Due to the selective isolation method used, all 85 isolates belonged to the phyla Firmicutes and Actinobacteria, with the majority of isolates belonging to the genera Bacillus and Streptomyces. Based on morphology, thirty-eight isolates were chosen for chemical investigation. Molecular networking based on chemical profiles (HR-MS/MS) of fermentation extracts was used to compare complex metabolite extracts. The results revealed 40% and 42% of parent ions were produced by Antarctic and Scottish isolated bacteria, respectively, and only 8% of networked metabolites were shared between these locations, implying a high degree of biogeographic influence upon secondary metabolite production. The resulting molecular network contained over 3500 parent ions with a mass range of m/z 149-2558 illustrating the wealth of metabolites produced. Furthermore, seven fermentation extracts showed bioactivity against epithelial colon adenocarcinoma cells, demonstrating the potential for the discovery of novel bioactive compounds from these understudied locations.	2016	6	10.3390/metabo6010002
Hoyos-Lopez, R; Bolanos, R; Contreras-Gutierrez, M; Carrero-Sarmiento, D	Phlebotomine sandflies (Diptera: Psychodidae) in a sub-Andean forest from the Norte de Santander, Colombia	JOURNAL OF VECTOR BORNE DISEASES	Background & objectives: The recognition of communities of arthropods with medical importance in natural systems constitutes an important step in the prediction of possible epidemic events and/or emergence of infectious diseases in the human population. This is due to anthropogenic impact in natural areas and landscape modification, which changes the dynamics of pathogenic agents, reservoirs, and vector insects. In this study, an inventory was compiled of species of the genus Lutzomyia present in sub-Andean forest from the confluence of the Pamplonita River basin. Methods: CDC-light and Shannon traps were used for collecting adult phlebotomine sandflies during the month of October 2013 in a sub-Andean forest from river basin Pamplonita. All specimens were identified using morphological keys. The epidemiological relevance of each species was reported using a literature review about natural infection or vector incrimination with Leishmania species or other pathogens microorganism. Results: A total of 2755 specimens belonging to eight species of the genus Lutzomyia were collected. Out of the eight species, seven belonged to the group verrucarum (Lutzomyia sp - townsendi series, L. ovallesi, L. spinicrassa, L. serrana, L. townsendi, L. nuneztovari and L. pia), while one belonged to the subgenus Helcocyrtomyia (L. hartmanni). A new registry of L. townsendi was observed for the Norte de Santander department. Interpretation & conclusion: The appreciable diversity of the verrucarum group observed in this area suggest further investigation on the biogeography and evolution of this group, and epidemiological risk for human populations around this area, as there are reports of Leishmania natural infection and favourable conditions for domestication of phlebotomines in rural towns.	2016	53	
Yan, H; Ji, ZJ; Jiao, YS; Wang, ET; Chen, WF; Guo, BL; Chen, WX	Genetic diversity and distribution of rhizobia associated with the medicinal legumes Astragalus spp. and Hedysarum polybotrys in agricultural soils	SYSTEMATIC AND APPLIED MICROBIOLOGY	With the increasing cultivation of medicinal legumes in agricultural fields, the rhizobia associated with these plants are facing new stresses, mainly from fertilization and irrigation. In this study, investigations on the nodulation of three cultivated medicinal legumes, Astragalus mongholicus, Astragalus membranaceus and Hedysarum polybotrys were performed. Bacterial isolates from root nodules of these legumes were subjected to genetic diversity and multilocus sequence analyses. In addition, the distribution of nodule bacteria related to soil factors and host plants was studied. A total 367 bacterial isolates were obtained and 13 genospecies were identified. The predominant microsymbionts were identified as Mesorhizobium septentrionale, Mesorhizobium temperatum, Mesorhizobium tianshanense, Mesorhizobium ciceri and Mesorhizobium muleiense. M. septentrionale was found in most root nodules especially from legumes grown in the barren soils (with low available nitrogen and low organic carbon contents), while M. temperatum was predominant in nodules where the plants were grown in the nitrogen-rich fields. A. mongholicus tended to be associated with M. septentrionale, M. temperatum and M. ciceri in different soils, while A. membranaceus and H. polybotrys tended to be associated with M. tianshanense and M. septentrionale, respectively. This study showed that soil fertility may be the main determinant for the distribution of rhizobia associated with these cultured legume plants. (C) 2016 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.	2016	39	10.1016/j.syapm.2016.01.004
Gaisin, VA; Grouzdev, DS; Namsaraev, ZB; Sukhacheva, MV; Gorlenko, VM; Kuznetsov, BB	Biogeography of thermophilic phototrophic bacteria belonging to Roseiflexus genus	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Isolated environments such as hot springs are particularly interesting for studying the microbial biogeography. These environments create an island effect leading to genetic divergence. We studied the phylogeographic pattern of thermophilic anoxygenic phototrophic bacteria, belonging to the Roseiflexus genus. The main characteristic of the observed pattern was geographic and geochronologic fidelity to the hot springs within Circum-Pacific and Alpine-Himalayan-Indonesian orogenic belts. Mantel test revealed a correlation between genetic divergence and geographic distance among the phylotypes. Cluster analysis revealed a regional differentiation of the global phylogenetic pattern. The phylogeographic pattern is in correlation with geochronologic events during the break up of Pangaea that led to the modern configuration of continents. To our knowledge this is the first geochronological scenario of intercontinental prokaryotic taxon divergence. The existence of the modern phylogeographic pattern contradicts with the existence of the ancient evolutionary history of the Roseiflexus group proposed on the basis of its deep-branching phylogenetic position. These facts indicate that evolutionary rates in Roseiflexus varied over a wide range.	2016	92	10.1093/femsec/fiw012
Hofmann, K; Pauli, H; Praeg, N; Wagner, AO; Illmer, P	Methane-cycling microorganisms in soils of a high-alpine altitudinal gradient	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Methanogens and methanotrophs play unique roles as producers and consumers of the greenhouse gas methane (CH4) in soils, respectively. Here, we aimed to reveal whether and to which extent methane-cyclers occur in high-alpine soils, and to assess their spatial distribution along an altitudinal gradient (2700-3500 m) in the Austrian Alps at sites located within the alpine (2700-2900 m), the alpine-nival (3000-3100 m) and the nival belts (3200-3500 m). Methanococcales and Methanocella spp. were most abundant among all quantified methanogenic guilds, whereas Methanosarcinales were not detected in the studied soil. The detected methanogens seem to be capable of persisting despite a highly oxic low-temperature environment. Methanogenic and methanotrophic activities and abundances of methanotrophs, Methanococcales and Methanocella spp. declined with altitude. Methanogenic and methanotrophic abundances were best explained by mean annual soil temperature and dissolved organic carbon, respectively. Alpine belt soils harbored significantly more methane-cyclers than those of the nival belt, indicating some influence of plant cover. Our results show that methanogens are capable of persisting in high-alpine cold soils and might help to understand future changes of these environments caused by climate warming.	2016	92	10.1093/femsec/fiw009
Smanski, MJ; Schlatter, DC; Kinkel, LL	Leveraging ecological theory to guide natural product discovery	JOURNAL OF INDUSTRIAL MICROBIOLOGY & BIOTECHNOLOGY	Technological improvements have accelerated natural product (NP) discovery and engineering to the point that systematic genome mining for new molecules is on the horizon. NP biosynthetic potential is not equally distributed across organisms, environments, or microbial life histories, but instead is enriched in a number of prolific clades. Also, NPs are not equally abundant in nature; some are quite common and others markedly rare. Armed with this knowledge, random fishing expeditions for new NPs are increasingly harder to justify. Understanding the ecological and evolutionary pressures that drive the non-uniform distribution of NP biosynthesis provides a rational framework for the targeted isolation of strains enriched in new NP potential. Additionally, ecological theory leads to testable hypotheses regarding the roles of NPs in shaping ecosystems. Here we review several recent strain prioritization practices and discuss the ecological and evolutionary underpinnings for each. Finally, we offer perspectives on leveraging microbial ecology and evolutionary biology for future NP discovery.	2016	43	10.1007/s10295-015-1683-9
Tyml, T; Kostka, M; Ditrich, O; Dykova, I	Vermistella arctica n. sp Nominates the Genus Vermistella as a Candidate for Taxon with Bipolar Distribution	JOURNAL OF EUKARYOTIC MICROBIOLOGY	A new amoebozoan species, Vermistella arctica n. sp., is described from marine habitats in the central part of Svalbard archipelago. This is the first report on Arctic amoebae belonging to the genus Vermistella Moran and Anderson, 2007, the type species of which was described from the opposite pole of the planet. Psychrophily proved in the new strains qualifies the genus Vermistella as a bipolar taxon. Molecular phylogenetic analyses based on 18S rDNA and actin sequences did not show any affinity of the genus Vermistella to Stygamoeba regulataATCC((R)) 50892 strain. A close phylogenetic relationship was found between Vermistella spp. and a sequence originating from an environmental sample from Cariaco basin, the largest marine permanently anoxic system in the world. Possible mechanisms of bipolar distribution are discussed.	2016	63	10.1111/jeu.12270
Antoine, PO; Abello, MA; Adnet, S; Sierra, AJA; Baby, P; Billet, G; Boivin, M; Calderon, Y; Candela, A; Chabain, J; Corfu, F; Croft, DA; Ganerod, M; Jaramillo, C; Klaus, S; Marivaux, L; Navarrete, RE; Orliac, MJ; Parra, F; Perez, ME; Pujos, F; Rage, JC; Ravel, A; Robinet, C; Roddaz, M; Tejada-Lara, JV; Velez-Juarbe, J; Wesselingh, FP; Salas-Gismondi, R	A 60-million-year Cenozoic history of western Amazonian ecosystems in Contamana, eastern Peru	GONDWANA RESEARCH	We provide a synopsis of similar to 60 million years of life history in Neotropical lowlands, based on a comprehensive survey of the Cenozoic deposits along the Quebrada Cachiyacu near Contamana in Peruvian Amazonia. The 34 fossil bearing localities identified have yielded a diversity of fossil remains, including vertebrates, mollusks, arthropods, plant fossils, and microorganisms, ranging from the early Paleocene to the late Miocene-?Pliocene (>20 successive levels). This Cenozoic series includes the base of the Huchpayacu Formation (Fm.; early Paleocene; lacustrine/fluvial environments; charophyte-dominated assemblage), the Pozo Fm. (middle + ?late Eocene; marine then freshwater environments; most diversified biomes), and complete sections for the Chambira Fm. (late Oligocene-late early Miocene; freshwater environments; vertebrate-dominated faunas), the Pebas Fm. (late early to early late Miocene; freshwater environments with an increasing marine influence; excellent fossil record), and Ipururo Fm. (late Miocene-?Pliocene; fully fluvial environments; virtually no fossils preserved). At least 485 fossil species are recognized in the Contamana area (similar to 250 plants, similar to 212 animals, and 23 foraminifera). Based on taxonomic lists from each stratigraphic interval, high-level taxonomic diversity remained fairly constant throughout the middle Eocene-Miocene interval (8-12 classes), ordinal diversity fluctuated to a greater degree, and family/species diversity generally declined, with a drastic drop in the early Miocene. The Paleocene-?Pliocene fossil assemblages from Contamana attest at least to four biogeographic histories inherited from (i) Mesozoic Gondwanan times, (ii) the Panamerican realm prior to (iii) the time of South Americas Cenozoic splendid isolation, and (iv) Neotropical ecosystems in the Americas. No direct evidence of any North American terrestrial immigrant has yet been recognized in the Miocene record at Contamana. (C) 2015 International Association for Gondwana Research. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2016	31	10.1016/j.gr.2015.11.001
Salazar, G; Cornejo-Castillo, FM; Benitez-Barrios, V; Fraile-Nuez, E; Alvarez-Salgado, XA; Duarte, CM; Gasol, JM; Acinas, SG	Global diversity and biogeography of deep-sea pelagic prokaryotes	ISME JOURNAL	The deep-sea is the largest biome of the biosphere, and contains more than half of the whole oceans microbes. Uncovering their general patterns of diversity and community structure at a global scale remains a great challenge, as only fragmentary information of deep-sea microbial diversity exists based on regional-scale studies. Here we report the first globally comprehensive survey of the prokaryotic communities inhabiting the bathypelagic ocean using high-throughput sequencing of the 16S rRNA gene. This work identifies the dominant prokaryotes in the pelagic deep ocean and reveals that 50% of the operational taxonomic units (OTUs) belong to previously unknown prokaryotic taxa, most of which are rare and appear in just a few samples. We show that whereas the local richness of communities is comparable to that observed in previous regional studies, the global pool of prokaryotic taxa detected is modest (similar to 3600 OTUs), as a high proportion of OTUs are shared among samples. The water masses appear to act as clear drivers of the geographical distribution of both particle-attached and free-living prokaryotes. In addition, we show that the deep-oceanic basins in which the bathypelagic realm is divided contain different particle-attached (but not free-living) microbial communities. The combination of the aging of the water masses and a lack of complete dispersal are identified as the main drivers for this biogeographical pattern. All together, we identify the potential of the deep ocean as a reservoir of still unknown biological diversity with a higher degree of spatial complexity than hitherto considered.	2016	10	10.1038/ismej.2015.137
Lara, E; Roussel-Delif, L; Fournier, B; Wilkinson, DM; Mitchell, EAD	Soil microorganisms behave like macroscopic organisms: patterns in the global distribution of soil euglyphid testate amoebae	JOURNAL OF BIOGEOGRAPHY	AimPatterns of - and -diversity of soil protist communities and the factors that shape them remain largely unknown. We undertook a world-wide survey of forest litter to investigate the patterns of diversity in a group of testate amoebae. We aimed to assess: (1) whether there is a latitudinal gradient in -diversity, and (2) whether -diversity was correlated solely with environmental factors commonly used in soil biology research or if it was also independently explained by geographical barriers. LocationWorld-wide. MethodsWe studied the diversity of Euglyphida, a common group of testate amoebae, in 35 samples of forest litter and moss samples from a global survey, using small subunit rRNA gene sequences. We assessed the relationship between sample -diversity and latitude using generalized additive models (GAM). Furthermore, we determined the relationships between community composition and geographical models (distance-based Morans Eigenvector Maps - db-MEM) using Generalized UniFrac distances (GUniFrac). We also investigated the relationship between individual measured soil parameters, WorldClim data and diversity (alpha plus beta) using both raw data and synthetic variables obtained through principal components analysis. ResultsWe recorded 245 phylotypes belonging to 6 out of 7 known Euglyphida families, plus four novel deep clades. Euglyphid -diversity was positively correlated with temperature and negatively with latitude and litter C/N ratio. Euglyphida community structure was correlated with the spatial eigenvector Db-MEM31, independently of all measured environmental variables. Db-MEM31 corresponds to a natural barrier constituted by the Northern Hemisphere desert belt. Beta diversity was correlated with other environmental variables, such as pH, isothermality and temperature in the coldest month of the year. Main conclusionsSoil euglyphid -diversity displays a latitudinal gradient, and -diversity is not only correlated with climatic and physicochemical parameters but also with geographical barriers. Such patterns of diversity were until recently believed to be characteristic only for macroscopic organisms.	2016	43	10.1111/jbi.12660
Fournier, B; Coffey, EED; van der Knaap, WO; Fernandez, LD; Bobrov, A; Mitchell, EAD	A legacy of human-induced ecosystem changes: spatial processes drive the taxonomic and functional diversities of testate amoebae in Sphagnum peatlands of the Galapagos	JOURNAL OF BIOGEOGRAPHY	AimOur aims were to compare the composition of testate amoeba (TA) communities from Santa Cruz Island, Galapagos Archipelago, which are likely in existence only as a result of anthropogenic habitat transformation, with similar naturally occurring communities from northern and southern continental peatlands. Additionally, we aimed at assessing the importance of niche-based and dispersal-based processes in determining community composition and taxonomic and functional diversity. LocationThe humid highlands of the central island of Santa Cruz, Galapagos Archipelago. MethodsWe survey the alpha, beta and gamma taxonomic and functional diversities of TA, and the changes in functional traits along a gradient of wet to dry habitats. We compare the TA community composition, abundance and frequency recorded in the insular peatlands with that recorded in continental peatlands of Northern and Southern Hemispheres. We use generalized linear models to determine how environmental conditions influence taxonomic and functional diversity as well as the mean values of functional traits within communities. We finally apply variance partitioning to assess the relative importance of niche- and dispersal-based processes in determining community composition. ResultsTA communities in Santa Cruz Island were different from their Northern Hemisphere and South American counterparts with most genera considered as characteristic for Northern Hemisphere and South American Sphagnum peatlands missing or very rare in the Galapagos. Functional traits were most correlated with elevation and site topography and alpha functional diversity to the type of material sampled and site topography. Community composition was more strongly correlated with spatial variables than with environmental ones. Main conclusionsTA communities of the Sphagnum peatlands of Santa Cruz Island and the mechanisms shaping these communities contrast with Northern Hemisphere and South American peatlands. Soil moisture was not a strong predictor of community composition most likely because rainfall and clouds provide sufficient moisture. Dispersal limitation was more important than environmental filtering because of the isolation of the insular peatlands from continental ones and the young ecological history of these ecosystems.	2016	43	10.1111/jbi.12655
Orgiazzi, A; Panagos, P; Yigini, Y; Dunbar, MB; Gardi, C; Montanarella, L; Ballabio, C	A knowledge-based approach to estimating the magnitude and spatial patterns of potential threats to soil biodiversity	SCIENCE OF THE TOTAL ENVIRONMENT	Because of the increasing pressures exerted on soil, below-ground life is under threat. Knowledge-based rankings of potential threats to different components of soil biodiversity were developed in order to assess the spatial distribution of threats on a European scale. A list of 13 potential threats to soil biodiversity was proposed to experts with different backgrounds in order to assess the potential for three major components of soil biodiversity: soil microorganisms, fauna, and biological functions. This approach allowed us to obtain knowledge-based rankings of threats. These classifications formed the basis for the development of indices through an additive aggregation model that, along with ad-hoc proxies for each pressure, allowed us to preliminarily assess the spatial patterns of potential threats. Intensive exploitation was identified as the highest pressure. In contrast, the use of genetically modified organisms in agriculture was considered as the threat with least potential. The potential impact of climate change showed the highest uncertainty. Fourteen out of the 27 considered countries have more than 40% of their soils with moderate-high to high potential risk for all three components of soil biodiversity. Arable soils are the most exposed to pressures. Soils within the boreal biogeographic region showed the lowest risk potential. The majority of soils at risk are outside the boundaries of protected areas. First maps of risks to three components of soil biodiversity based on the current scientific knowledge were developed. Despite the intrinsic limits of knowledge-based assessments, a remarkable potential risk to soil biodiversity was observed. Guidelines to preliminarily identify and circumscribe soils potentially at risk are provided. This approach may be used in future research to assess threat at both local and global scale and identify areas of possible risk and, subsequently, design appropriate strategies for monitoring and protection of soil biota. (C) 2015 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V.	2016	545	10.1016/j.scitotenv.2015.12.092
Nagler, M; Ascher, J; Gomez-Brandon, M; Insam, H	Soil microbial communities along the route of a venturous cycling trip	APPLIED SOIL ECOLOGY	The purpose of the present study is not solely scientific but arose from a rare fusion of art and science during a venturesome bicycle trip from Austria (Europe) to Laos (Asia). The artist Wolfgang Burtscher produced every-day dirt tire imprints on papers (tripmarks) to document his journey (www.tripmarks.at) Contributing to public awareness in this International Year of Soils 2015 we took a closer look at the dirt forming these pieces of art, namely to investigate the inherent microbial life. As such, we benefited from minute soil samples along a global transect, which permitted the classical hypothesis on microbial cosmopolitanism to be evaluated. DNA from 0.1 g soil was extracted and amplified with specific primers for fungi and actinobacteria to obtain denaturing gradient gel (DGGE) fingerprinting patterns. Spatial variables were generated by applying trend surface analysis and principal coordinates of neighbour matrices. Canonical correspondence analysis was also used to check for driving factors. Our results show that microbial variability is primarily being influenced by environmental rather than spatial patterns. Clearly distinct communities in the soils of distant sampling sites were formed for actinobacteria but not for fungi. Furthermore, cosmopolitan phylotypes with relative abundances as high as 80.5% (fungi) and 74.0% (actinobacteria) were detected. These findings show that Eurasian soil microbial communities follow environmental rather than spatial constraints. For the artist, these results emphasize the broad diversity of microorganisms present on his tripmarks joining the facet of the beauty and variety of life with his dirty tire imprints. (C) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2016	99	10.1016/j.apsoil.2015.11.010
Opik, M; Davison, J; Moora, M; Partel, M; Zobel, M	FUNGAL SYMBIONTS Response to Comment on Global assessment of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus diversity reveals very low endemism	SCIENCE	Bruns and Taylor argue that our finding of widespread distribution among Glomeromycota virtual taxa is undermined by the species definition applied. Although identifying appropriate species concepts and accessing taxonomically informative traits are challenges for microorganism biogeography, the virtual taxa represent a pragmatic classification that corresponds approximately to the species rank of classical Glomeromycota taxonomy, yet is applicable to environmental DNA.	2016	351	10.1126/science.aad5495
Pearce, DA; Alekhina, IA; Terauds, A; Wilmotte, A; Quesada, A; Edwards, A; Dommergue, A; Sattler, B; Adams, BJ; Magalhaes, C; Chu, WL; Lau, MCY; Cary, C; Smith, DJ; Wall, DH; Eguren, G; Matcher, G; Bradley, JA; de Vera, JP; Elster, J; Hughes, KA; Cuthbertson, L; Benning, LG; Gunde-Cimerman, N; Convey, P; Hong, SG; Pointing, SB; Pellizari, VH; Vincent, WF	Aerobiology Over Antarctica - A New Initiative for Atmospheric Ecology	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	The role of aerial dispersal in shaping patterns of biodiversity remains poorly understood, mainly due to a lack of coordinated efforts in gathering data at appropriate temporal and spatial scales. It has been long known that the rate of dispersal to an ecosystem can significantly influence ecosystem dynamics, and that aerial transport has been identified as an important source of biological input to remote locations. With the considerable effort devoted in recent decades to understanding atmospheric circulation in the south polar region, a unique opportunity has emerged to investigate the atmospheric ecology of Antarctica, from regional to continental scales. This concept note identifies key questions in Antarctic microbial biogeography and the need for standardized sampling and analysis protocols to address such questions. A consortium of polar aerobiologists is established to bring together researchers with a common interest in the airborne dispersion of microbes and other propagules in the Antarctic, with opportunities for comparative studies in the Arctic.	2016	7	10.3389/fmicb.2016.00016
Welch, JLM; Rossetti, BJ; Rieken, CW; Dewhirst, FE; Borisy, GG	Biogeography of a human oral microbiome at the micron scale	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	The spatial organization of complex natural microbiomes is critical to understanding the interactions of the individual taxa that comprise a community. Although the revolution in DNA sequencing has provided an abundance of genomic-level information, the biogeography of microbiomes is almost entirely uncharted at the micron scale. Using spectral imaging fluorescence in situ hybridization as guided by metagenomic sequence analysis, we have discovered a distinctive, multigenus consortium in the microbiome of supragingival dental plaque. The consortium consists of a radially arranged, nine-taxon structure organized around cells of filamentous corynebacteria. The consortium ranges in size from a few tens to a few hundreds of microns in radius and is spatially differentiated. Within the structure, individual taxa are localized at the micron scale in ways suggestive of their functional niche in the consortium. For example, anaerobic taxa tend to be in the interior, whereas facultative or obligate aerobes tend to be at the periphery of the consortium. Consumers and producers of certain metabolites, such as lactate, tend to be near each other. Based on our observations and the literature, we propose a model for plaque microbiome development and maintenance consistent with known metabolic, adherence, and environmental considerations. The consortium illustrates how complex structural organization can emerge from the micron-scale interactions of its constituent organisms. The understanding that plaque community organization is an emergent phenomenon offers a perspective that is general in nature and applicable to other microbiomes.	2016	113	10.1073/pnas.1522149113
Ruiz-Calderon, JF; Cavallin, H; Song, SJ; Novoselac, A; Pericchi, LR; Hernandez, JN; Rios, R; Branch, OH; Pereira, H; Paulino, LC; Blaser, MJ; Knight, R; Dominguez-Bello, MG	Walls talk: Microbial biogeography of homes spanning urbanization	SCIENCE ADVANCES	Westernization has propelled changes in urbanization and architecture, altering our exposure to the outdoor environment from that experienced during most of human evolution. These changes might affect the developmental exposure of infants to bacteria, immune development, and human microbiome diversity. Contemporary urban humans spend most of their time indoors, and little is known about the microbes associated with different designs of the built environment and their interaction with the human immune system. This study addresses the associations between architectural design and the microbial biogeography of households across a gradient of urbanization in South America. Urbanization was associated with households increased isolation from outdoor environments, with additional indoor space isolation by walls. Microbes from house walls and floors segregate by location, and urban indoor walls contain human bacterial markers of space use. Urbanized spaces uniquely increase the content of human-associated microbes-which could increase transmission of potential pathogens- and decrease exposure to the environmental microbes with which humans have coevolved.	2016	2	10.1126/sciadv.1501061
Geremia, RA; Puscas, M; Zinger, L; Bonneville, JM; Choler, P	Contrasting microbial biogeographical patterns between anthropogenic subalpine grasslands and natural alpine grasslands	NEW PHYTOLOGIST	The effect of plant species composition on soil microbial communities was studied at the multiregional level. We compared the soil microbial communities of alpine natural grasslands dominated by Carex curvula and anthropogenic subalpine pastures dominated by Nardus stricta. We conducted paired sampling across the Carpathians and the Alps and used Illumina sequencing to reveal the molecular diversity of soil microbes. We found that bacterial and fungal communities exhibited contrasting regional distributions and that the distribution in each grassland is well discriminated. Beta diversity of microbial communities was much higher in C. curvula grasslands due to a marked regional effect. The composition of grassland-type core microbiomes suggest that C. curvula, and N. stricta to a lesser extent, tend to select a cohort of microbes related to antibiosis/exclusion, pathogenesis and endophytism. We discuss these findings in light of the postglacial history of the studied grasslands, the habitat connectivity and the disturbance regimes. Human-induced disturbance in the subalpine belt of European mountains has led to homogeneous soil microbial communities at large biogeographical scales. Our results confirm the overarching role of the dominant grassland plant species in the distribution of microbial communities and highlight the relevance of biogeographical history.	2016	209	10.1111/nph.13690
Alvarenga, DO; Rigonato, J; Branco, LHZ; Melo, IS; Fiore, MF	Phyllonema aviceniicola gen. nov., sp nov and Foliisarcina bertiogensis gen. nov., sp nov., epiphyllic cyanobacteria associated with Avicennia schaueriana leaves	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SYSTEMATIC AND EVOLUTIONARY MICROBIOLOGY	Cyanobacteria dwelling on the salt-excreting leaves of the mangrove tree Avicennia schaueriana were isolated and characterized by ecological, morphological and genetic approaches. Leaves were collected in a mangrove with a history of oil contamination on the coastline of Sao Paulo state, Brazil, and isolation was achieved by smearing leaves on the surface of solid media or by submerging leaves in liquid media. Twenty-nine isolated strains were shown to belong to five cyanobacterial orders (thirteen to Synechococcales, seven to Nostocales, seven to Pleurocapsales, one to Chroococcales, and one to Oscillatoriales) according to morphological and 16S rRNA gene sequence evaluations. More detailed investigations pointed six Rivulariacean and four Xenococcacean strains as novel taxa. These strains were classified as Phyllonema gen. nov. (type species Phyllonema aviceniicola sp. nov. with type strain CENA341(T)) and Foliisarcina gen. nov. (type species Foliisarcina bertiogensis sp. nov. with type strain CENA333(T)), according to the International Code of Nomenclature for Algae, Fungi, and Plants. This investigation shows some of the unique cyanobacteria inhabiting the phyllosphere of Avicennia schaueriana can be retrieved by culturing techniques, improving current taxonomy and providing new insights into the evolution, ecology, and biogeography of this phylum.	2016	66	10.1099/ijsem.0.000774
McKay, L; Klokman, VW; Mendlovitz, HP; LaRowe, DE; Hoer, DR; Albert, D; Amend, JP; Teske, A	Thermal and geochemical influences on microbial biogeography in the hydrothermal sediments of Guaymas Basin, Gulf of California	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY REPORTS	Extreme thermal gradients and compressed metabolic zones limit the depth range of microbial colonization in hydrothermally active sediments at Guaymas Basin. We investigated the physicochemical characteristics of this ecosystem and their influence on microbial community structure. Temperature-related trends of C-13 values of methane and dissolved inorganic carbon from 36 sediment cores suggest in situ thermal limits for microbial anaerobic methane oxidation and organic carbon re-mineralization near 80 degrees C and 100 degrees C respectively. Temperature logging probes deposited in hydrothermal sediments for 8 days demonstrate substantial thermal fluctuations of up to 25 degrees C. Putative anaerobic methanotroph (ANME) populations dominate the archaeal community, transitioning from ANME-1 archaea in warm surficial sediments towards ANME-1 Guaymas archaea as temperatures increase downcore. Since ANME archaea performing anaerobic oxidation of methane double on longer time scales (months) compared with relatively rapid in situ temperature fluctuations (hours to days), we conclude that ANME archaea possess a high tolerance for short-term shifts in the thermal regime.	2016	8	10.1111/1758-2229.12365
Han, D; Nam, SI; Ha, HK; Kim, H; Sadowsky, MJ; Lee, YK; Hur, HG	Bacterial biogeography influenced by shelf-basin exchange in the Arctic surface sediment at the Chukchi Borderland	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	It has been known that continental shelves around the Arctic Ocean play a major role in the ventilation of the deep basins as a consequence of shelf-basin exchange. In the present study, we found that bacterial assemblage of the surface sediment was different from that of seawater while seawater harboured local bacterial assemblages in response to the Arctic hydrography. This finding suggests that the Arctic seafloor sediments may have distinctive bacterial biogeography. Moreover, the distribution of bacterial assemblages and physicochemical properties in surface sediments changed gradually from the Arctic continental shelf to deep-sea basin. Based on the results, bacterial biogeography in the Arctic seafloor sediments may be influenced by winnowing and re-deposition of surface sediments through the sediment gravity flow. The present study offers a deeper understanding of shelf convection and its role for the construction of bacterial assemblages in the Arctic Ocean.	2016	18	10.1111/1462-2920.13064
Cameron, KA; Stibal, M; Zarsky, JD; Gozdereliler, E; Schostag, M; Jacobsen, CS	Supraglacial bacterial community structures vary across the Greenland ice sheet	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	The composition and spatial variability of microbial communities that reside within the extensive (>200 000 km(2)) biologically active area encompassing the Greenland ice sheet (GrIS) is hypothesized to be variable. We examined bacterial communities from cryoconite debris and surface ice across the GrIS, using sequence analysis and quantitative PCR of 16S rRNA genes from co-extracted DNA and RNA. Communities were found to differ across the ice sheet, with 82.8% of the total calculated variation attributed to spatial distribution on a scale of tens of kilometers separation. Amplicons related to Sphingobacteriaceae, Pseudanabaenaceae and WPS-2 accounted for the greatest portion of calculated dissimilarities. The bacterial communities of ice and cryoconite were moderately similar (global R = 0.360, P = 0.002) and the sampled surface type (ice versus cryoconite) did not contribute heavily towards community dissimilarities (2.3% of total variability calculated). The majority of dissimilarities found between cryoconite 16S rRNA gene amplicons from DNA and RNA was calculated to be the result of changes in three taxa, Pseudanabaenaceae, Sphingobacteriaceae and WPS-2, which together contributed towards 80.8 +/- 12.6% of dissimilarities between samples. Bacterial communities across the GrIS are spatially variable active communities that are likely influenced by localized biological inputs and physicochemical conditions.	2016	92	10.1093/femsec/fiv164
Staley, C; Sadowsky, MJ	Application of metagenomics to assess microbial communities in water and other environmental matrices	JOURNAL OF THE MARINE BIOLOGICAL ASSOCIATION OF THE UNITED KINGDOM	The emergence of metagenomics-based approaches in biology has overcome historical culture-based biases in microbiological studies. This has also enabled a more comprehensive assessment of the microbial ecology of environmental samples. The subsequent development of next-generation sequencing technologies, able to produce hundreds of millions of sequences at improved cost and speed, necessitated a computational shift from user-supervised alignment and analysis pipelines, that were used previously for vector-based metagenomic studies that relied on Sanger sequencing. Current computational advances have expanded the scope of microbial biogeography studies and offered novel insights into microbial responses to environmental variation and anthropogenic inputs into ecosystems. However, new biostatistical and computational approaches are required to handle the large volume and complexity of these new multivariate datasets. While this has allowed more complete characterization of taxonomic, phylogenetic and functional microbial diversity, these tools are still limited by methodological biases, incomplete databases, and the high cost of fully characterizing environmental biodiversity. This review addresses the evolution of methods to monitor surface waters and characterize environmental samples through the recent computational advances in metagenomics, with an emphasis on the study of surface waters. These new methods have provided an abundance of opportunities to expand our understanding of the interaction between microbial communities and public health. Specifically, they have allowed for comprehensive monitoring of bacterial communities in surface waters for changes in community structure associated with faecal contamination and the presence of human pathogens, rather than relying on only a few indicator bacteria to direct public health concerns.	2016	96	10.1017/S0025315415001496
Lemaire, B; Van Cauwenberghe, J; Verstraete, B; Chimphango, S; Stirton, C; Honnay, O; Smets, E; Sprent, J; James, EK; Muasya, AM	Characterization of the papilionoid-Burkholderia interaction in the Fynbos biome: The diversity and distribution of beta-rhizobia nodulating Podalyria calyptrata (Fabaceae, Podalyrieae)	SYSTEMATIC AND APPLIED MICROBIOLOGY	The South African Fynbos soils are renowned for nitrogen-fixing Burkholderia associated with diverse papilionoid legumes of the tribes Crotalarieae, Hypocalypteae, Indigofereae, Phaseoleae and Podalyrieae. However, despite numerous rhizobial studies in the region, the symbiotic diversity of Burkholderia has not been investigated in relation to a specific host legume and its geographical provenance. This study analyzed the diversity of nodulating strains of Burkholderia from the legume species Podalyria calyptrata. Diverse lineages were detected that proved to be closely related to Burkholderia taxa, originating from hosts in other legume tribes. By analyzing the genetic variation of chromosomal (recA) and nodulation (nodA) sequence data in relation to the sampling sites we assessed the geographical distribution patterns of the P. calyptrata symbionts. Although we found a degree of genetically differentiated rhizobial populations, a correlation between genetic (recA and nodA) and geographic distances among populations was not observed, suggesting high rates of dispersal and rhizobial colonization within Fynbos soils. (C) 2015 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.	2016	39	10.1016/j.syapm.2015.09.006
Rehman, A; Rausch, P; Wang, J; Skieceviciene, J; Kiudelis, G; Bhagalia, K; Amarapurkar, D; Kupcinskas, L; Schreiber, S; Rosenstiel, P; Baines, JF; Ott, S	Geographical patterns of the standing and active human gut microbiome in health and IBD	GUT	Objective A global increase of IBD has been reported, especially in countries that previously had low incidence rates. Also, the knowledge of the human gut microbiome is steadily increasing, however, limited information regarding its variation on a global scale is available. In the light of the microbial involvement in IBDs, we aimed to (1) identify shared and distinct IBD-associated mucosal microbiota patterns from different geographical regions including Europe (Germany, Lithuania) and South Asia (India) and (2) determine whether profiling based on 16S rRNA transcripts provides additional resolution, both of which may hold important clinical relevance. Design In this study, we analyse a set of 89 mucosal biopsies sampled from individuals of German, Lithuanian and Indian origins, using bacterial community profiling of a roughly equal number of healthy controls, patients with Crohns disease and UC from each location, and analyse 16S rDNA and rRNA as proxies for standing and active microbial community structure, respectively. Results We find pronounced population-specific as well as general disease patterns in the major phyla and patterns of diversity, which differ between the standing and active communities. The geographical origin of samples dominates the patterns of beta diversity with locally restricted disease clusters and more pronounced effects in the active microbial communities. However, two genera belonging to the Clostridium leptum subgroup, Faecalibacteria and Papillibacter, display consistent patterns with respect to disease status and may thus serve as reliable microbiomarkers. Conclusions These analyses reveal important interactions of patients geographical origin and disease in the interpretation of disease-associated changes in microbial communities and highlight the added value of analysing communities on both the 16S rRNA gene (DNA) and transcript (RNA) level.	2016	65	10.1136/gutjnl-2014-308341
Deng, Y; He, ZL; Xiong, JB; Yu, H; Xu, MY; Hobbie, SE; Reich, PB; Schadt, CW; Kent, A; Pendall, E; Wallenstein, M; Zhou, JZ	Elevated carbon dioxide accelerates the spatial turnover of soil microbial communities	GLOBAL CHANGE BIOLOGY	Although elevated CO2 (eCO(2)) significantly affects the -diversity, composition, function, interaction and dynamics of soil microbial communities at the local scale, little is known about eCO(2) impacts on the geographic distribution of micro-organisms regionally or globally. Here, we examined the -diversity of 110 soil microbial communities across six free air CO2 enrichment (FACE) experimental sites using a high-throughput functional gene array. The -diversity of soil microbial communities was significantly (P<0.05) correlated with geographic distance under both CO2 conditions, but declined significantly (P<0.05) faster at eCO(2) with a slope of -0.0250 than at ambient CO2 (aCO(2)) with a slope of -0.0231 although it varied within each individual site, indicating that the spatial turnover rate of soil microbial communities was accelerated under eCO(2) at a larger geographic scale (e.g. regionally). Both distance and soil properties significantly (P<0.05) contributed to the observed microbial -diversity. This study provides new hypotheses for further understanding their assembly mechanisms that may be especially important as global CO2 continues to increase.	2016	22	10.1111/gcb.13098
Kharbush, JJ; Kejriwal, K; Aluwihare, LI	Distribution and Abundance of Hopanoid Producers in Low-Oxygen Environments of the Eastern Pacific Ocean	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Hopanoids are bacterial membrane lipid biomarker molecules that feature prominently in the molecular fossil record. In the modern marine water column, recent reports implicate bacteria inhabiting low-oxygen environments as important sources of hopanoids to marine sediments. However, the preliminary biogeography reported by recent studies and the environmental conditions governing such distributions can only be confirmed when the numerical abundance of these organisms is known with more certainty. In this study, we employ two different approaches to examine the quantitative significance of phylogenetically distinct hopanoid producers in low-oxygen environments. First, we develop a novel quantitative PCR (qPCR) assay for the squalene hopene cyclase (sqhC) gene, targeting a subset of hopanoid producers previously identified to be important in the eastern North Pacific Ocean. The results represent the first quantitative gene abundance data of any kind for hopanoid producers in the marine water column and show that these putative alphaproteobacterial hopanoid producers are rare, comprising at most 0.2 % of the total bacterial community in our samples. Second, a complementary analysis of existing low-oxygen metagenomic datasets further examined the generality of the qPCR observation. We find that the dominant sqhC sequences in these metagenomic datasets are associated with phyla such as Nitrospinae rather than Proteobacteria, consistent with the qPCR finding that alphaproteobacterial hopanoid producers are not very abundant in low-oxygen environments. In fact, positive correlations between sqhC gene abundance and environmental parameters in these samples identify nitrite availability as a potentially important factor in the ecology of hopanoid producers that dominate low-oxygen environments.	2016	71	10.1007/s00248-015-0671-y
Stacy, A; McNally, L; Darch, SE; Brown, SP; Whiteley, M	The biogeography of polymicrobial infection	NATURE REVIEWS MICROBIOLOGY	Microbial communities are spatially organized in both the environment and the human body. Although patterns exhibited by these communities are described by microbial biogeography, this discipline has previously only considered large-scale, global patterns. By contrast, the fine-scale positioning of a pathogen within an infection site can greatly alter its virulence potential. In this Review, we highlight the importance of considering spatial positioning in the study of polymicrobial infections and discuss targeting biogeography as a therapeutic strategy.	2016	14	10.1038/nrmicro.2015.8
Young, KR	Biogeography of the Anthropocene: Domestication	PROGRESS IN PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY	The past and present impacts of humans on the biosphere have altered many ecological and evolutionary processes. One of the most dramatic set of examples comes from domestication, which has transformed species, landscapes, and socioeconomic systems over the last 30 millennia. Recent research driven by advances in molecular biology and information sciences, and enriched by whole genome analyses of the main plant and animal domesticates, is now able to elucidate obscure phylogenetic relationships complicated by past hybridization and chromosome rearrangements. These methods also reveal information on the historical events that converted wild species into useful, and in some cases, codependent taxa. A further set of human-domesticate interactions produces the great diversification behind the origin and maintenance of numerous crop landraces, fruit and vegetable variants, and animal breeds. Fashion, taste preferences, and familial dynamics are some of the additional factors involved beyond usefulness that collectively result in human-caused artificial selection. Domestication is an important dimension to consider in understanding the biogeographical implications of the Anthropocene.	2016	40	10.1177/0309133315598724
Sohm, JA; Ahlgren, NA; Thomson, ZJ; Williams, C; Moffett, JW; Saito, MA; Webb, EA; Rocap, G	Co-occurring Synechococcus ecotypes occupy four major oceanic regimes defined by temperature, macronutrients and iron	ISME JOURNAL	Marine picocyanobacteria, comprised of the genera Synechococcus and Prochlorococcus, are the most abundant and widespread primary producers in the ocean. More than 20 genetically distinct clades of marine Synechococcus have been identified, but their physiology and biogeography are not as thoroughly characterized as those of Prochlorococcus. Using clade-specific qPCR primers, we measured the abundance of 10 Synechococcus clades at 92 locations in surface waters of the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans. We found that Synechococcus partition the ocean into four distinct regimes distinguished by temperature, macronutrients and iron availability. Clades I and IV were prevalent in colder, mesotrophic waters; clades II, III and X dominated in the warm, oligotrophic open ocean; clades CRD1 and CRD2 were restricted to sites with low iron availability; and clades XV and XVI were only found in transitional waters at the edges of the other biomes. Overall, clade II was the most ubiquitous clade investigated and was the dominant clade in the largest biome, the oligotrophic open ocean. Co-occurring clades that occupy the same regime belong to distinct evolutionary lineages within Synechococcus, indicating that multiple ecotypes have evolved independently to occupy similar niches and represent examples of parallel evolution. We speculate that parallel evolution of ecotypes may be a common feature of diverse marine microbial communities that contributes to functional redundancy and the potential for resiliency.	2016	10	10.1038/ismej.2015.115
Tedersoo, L; Bahram, M; Cajthaml, T; Polme, S; Hiiesalu, I; Anslan, S; Harend, H; Buegger, F; Pritsch, K; Koricheva, J; Abarenkov, K	Tree diversity and species identity effects on soil fungi, protists and animals are context dependent	ISME JOURNAL	Plant species richness and the presence of certain influential species (sampling effect) drive the stability and functionality of ecosystems as well as primary production and biomass of consumers. However, little is known about these floristic effects on richness and community composition of soil biota in forest habitats owing to methodological constraints. We developed a DNA metabarcoding approach to identify the major eukaryote groups directly from soil with roughly species-level resolution. Using this method, we examined the effects of tree diversity and individual tree species on soil microbial biomass and taxonomic richness of soil biota in two experimental study systems in Finland and Estonia and accounted for edaphic variables and spatial autocorrelation. Our analyses revealed that the effects of tree diversity and individual species on soil biota are largely context dependent. Multiple regression and structural equation modelling suggested that biomass, soil pH, nutrients and tree species directly affect richness of different taxonomic groups. The community composition of most soil organisms was strongly correlated due to similar response to environmental predictors rather than causal relationships. On a local scale, soil resources and tree species have stronger effect on diversity of soil biota than tree species richness per se.	2016	10	10.1038/ismej.2015.116
Mojica, KDA; Huisman, J; Wilhelm, SW; Brussaard, CPD	Latitudinal variation in virus-induced mortality of phytoplankton across the North Atlantic Ocean	ISME JOURNAL	Viral lysis of phytoplankton constrains marine primary production, food web dynamics and biogeochemical cycles in the ocean. Yet, little is known about the biogeographical distribution of viral lysis rates across the global ocean. To address this, we investigated phytoplankton group-specific viral lysis rates along a latitudinal gradient within the North Atlantic Ocean. The data show large-scale distribution patterns of different virus groups across the North Atlantic that are associated with the biogeographical distributions of their potential microbial hosts. Average virus-mediated lysis rates of the picocyanobacteria Prochlorococcus and Synechococcus were lower than those of the picoeukaryotic and nanoeukaryotic phytoplankton (that is, 0.14 per day compared with 0.19 and 0.23 per day, respectively). Total phytoplankton mortality (virus plus grazer-mediated) was comparable to the gross growth rate, demonstrating high turnover rates of phytoplankton populations. Virus-induced mortality was an important loss process at low and mid latitudes, whereas phytoplankton mortality was dominated by microzooplankton grazing at higher latitudes (>56 degrees N). This shift from a viral-lysis-dominated to a grazing-dominated phytoplankton community was associated with a decrease in temperature and salinity, and the decrease in viral lysis rates was also associated with increased vertical mixing at higher latitudes. Ocean-climate models predict that surface warming will lead to an expansion of the stratified and oligotrophic regions of the worlds oceans. Our findings suggest that these future shifts in the regional climate of the ocean surface layer are likely to increase the contribution of viral lysis to phytoplankton mortality in the higher-latitude waters of the North Atlantic, which may potentially reduce transfer of matter and energy up the food chain and thus affect the capacity of the northern North Atlantic to act as a long-term sink for CO2.	2016	10	10.1038/ismej.2015.130
Ulyshen, MD	Wood decomposition as influenced by invertebrates	BIOLOGICAL REVIEWS	The diversity and habitat requirements of invertebrates associated with dead wood have been the subjects of hundreds of studies in recent years but we still know very little about the ecological or economic importance of these organisms. The purpose of this review is to examine whether, how and to what extent invertebrates affect wood decomposition in terrestrial ecosystems. Three broad conclusions can be reached from the available literature. First, wood decomposition is largely driven by microbial activity but invertebrates also play a significant role in both temperate and tropical environments. Primary mechanisms include enzymatic digestion (involving both endogenous enzymes and those produced by endo- and ectosymbionts), substrate alteration (tunnelling and fragmentation), biotic interactions and nitrogen fertilization (i.e. promoting nitrogen fixation by endosymbiotic and free-living bacteria). Second, the effects of individual invertebrate taxa or functional groups can be accelerative or inhibitory but the cumulative effect of the entire community is generally to accelerate wood decomposition, at least during the early stages of the process (most studies are limited to the first 2-3years). Although methodological differences and design limitations preclude meta-analysis, studies aimed at quantifying the contributions of invertebrates to wood decomposition commonly attribute 10-20% of wood loss to these organisms. Finally, some taxa appear to be particularly influential with respect to promoting wood decomposition. These include large wood-boring beetles (Coleoptera) and termites (Termitoidae), especially fungus-farming macrotermitines. The presence or absence of these species may be more consequential than species richness and the influence of invertebrates is likely to vary biogeographically.	2016	91	10.1111/brv.12158
Tisthammer, KH; Cobian, GM; Amend, AS	Global biogeography of marine fungi is shaped by the environment	FUNGAL ECOLOGY	Fungi are essential components of marine ecosystems, yet very little is known about their global distribution and diversity in the marine environment. In this study, we analyzed marine fungal community structure at a global scale using the International Census of Marine Microbes dataset. Marine fungal communities sampled from both the water column and sediments were compared. Based on the sequences of the nuclear ribosomal small subunit V9 region, 2200 operational taxonomic units (OTUs) were identified at 97% similarity. There was a significant distinction between the pelagic and benthic communities, with 15.4% OTUs shared between the two realms. Environmental factors, particularly sample depth, oxygen, and nitrate, strongly correlated with the fungal community composition and explained more variance than did geographic distance. This study represents the first global-scale analysis of marine fungal community structure, and highlights potential opportunities for research in marine fungal ecology and biogeography. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd and The British Mycological Society. All rights reserved.	2016	19	10.1016/j.funeco.2015.09.003
Duarte, S; Barlocher, F; Pascoal, C; Cassio, F	Biogeography of aquatic hyphomycetes: Current knowledge and future perspectives	FUNGAL ECOLOGY	Since Ingolds (1942) initial description, mycologists have been interested in deciphering global distribution patterns of aquatic hyphomycetes, a group of fungi that play a key role in plant-litter decomposition in freshwaters. However, many questions remain largely unanswered. In this review, we used distribution data of morphospecies from studies throughout the world in an attempt to better understand the magnitude of global species richness, patterns of biodiversity and the extent of cosmopolitanism versus endemism. Sampling efforts have varied among geographic regions, and correlate significantly with species richness. Community similarity decreased with geographic or latitudinal distance. Species richness was highest at mid-latitudes (temperate streams), and high community similarities were found between geographically distant locations in similar climatic zones. Studies relying on morphotypes have undoubtedly provided relevant information on the geographic distribution of aquatic hyphomycetes. However, metagenomic approaches combining taxonomic, phylogenetic and functional diversity in coordinated surveys will be the best option to better decipher diversity patterns of these fungi and their functional roles at a global scale. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd and The British Mycological Society. All rights reserved.	2016	19	10.1016/j.funeco.2015.06.002
Behzad, H; Ibarra, MA; Mineta, K; Gojobori, T	Metagenomic studies of the Red Sea	GENE	Metagenomics has significantly advanced the field of marine microbial ecology, revealing the vast diversity of previously unknown microbial life forms in different marine niches. The tremendous amount of data generated has enabled identification of a large number of microbial genes (metagenomes), their community interactions, adaptation mechanisms, and their potential applications in pharmaceutical and biotechnology-based industries. Comparative metagenomics reveals that microbial diversity is a function of the local environment, meaning that unique or unusual environments typically harbor novel microbial species with unique genes and metabolic pathways. The Red Sea has an abundance of unique characteristics; however, its microbiota is one of the least studied among marine environments. The Red Sea harbors approximately 25 hot anoxic brine pools, plus a vibrant coral reef ecosystem. Physiochemical studies describe the Red Sea as an oligotrophic environment that contains one of the warmest and saltiest waters in the world with year-round high UV radiations. These characteristics are believed to have shaped the evolution of microbial communities in the Red Sea. Over-representation of genes involved in DNA repair, high-intensity light responses, and osmoregulation were found in the Red Sea metagenomic databases suggesting acquisition of specific environmental adaptation by the Red Sea microbiota. The Red Sea brine pools harbor a diverse range of halophilic and thermophilic bacterial and archaeal communities, which are potential sources of enzymes for pharmaceutical and biotechnology-based application. Understanding the mechanisms of these adaptations and their function within the larger ecosystem could also prove useful in light of predicted global warming scenarios where global ocean temperatures are expected to rise by 1-3 degrees C in the next few decades. In this review, we provide an overview of the published metagenomic studies that were conducted in the Red Sea, and the bio-prospecting potential of the Red Sea microbiota. Furthermore, we discuss the limitations of the previous studies and the need for generating a large and representative metagenomic database of the Red Sea to help establish a dynamic model of the Red Sea microbiota. (C) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2016	576	10.1016/j.gene.2015.10.034
Bienhold, C; Zinger, L; Boetius, A; Ramette, A	Diversity and Biogeography of Bathyal and Abyssal Seafloor Bacteria	PLOS ONE	The deep ocean floor covers more than 60% of the Earths surface, and hosts diverse bacterial communities with important functions in carbon and nutrient cycles. The identification of key bacterial members remains a challenge and their patterns of distribution in seafloor sediment yet remain poorly described. Previous studies were either regionally restricted or included few deep-sea sediments, and did not specifically test biogeographic patterns across the vast oligotrophic bathyal and abyssal seafloor. Here we define the composition of this deep seafloor microbiome by describing those bacterial operational taxonomic units (OTU) that are specifically associated with deep-sea surface sediments at water depths ranging from 1000-5300 m. We show that the microbiome of the surface seafloor is distinct from the subsurface seafloor. The cosmopolitan bacterial OTU were affiliated with the clades JTB255 (class Gammaproteobacteria, order Xanthomonadales) and OM1 (Actinobacteria, order Acidimicrobiales), comprising 21% and 7% of their respective clades, and about 1% of all sequences in the study. Overall, few sequence-abundant bacterial types were globally dispersed and displayed positive range-abundance relationships. Most bacterial populations were rare and exhibited a high degree of endemism, explaining the substantial differences in community composition observed over large spatial scales. Despite the relative physicochemical uniformity of deep-sea sediments, we identified indicators of productivity regimes, especially sediment organic matter content, as factors significantly associated with changes in bacterial community structure across the globe.	2016	11	10.1371/journal.pone.0148016
Jeffries, TC; Fontes, MLS; Harrison, DP; Van-Dongen-Vogels, V; Eyre, BD; Ralph, PJ; Seymour, JR	Bacterioplankton Dynamics within a Large Anthropogenically Impacted Urban Estuary	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	The abundant and diverse microorganisms that inhabit aquatic systems are both determinants and indicators of aquatic health, providing essential ecosystem services such as nutrient cycling but also causing harmful blooms and disease in impacted habitats. Estuaries are among the most urbanized coastal ecosystems and as a consequence experience substantial environmental pressures, providing ideal systems to study the influence of anthropogenic inputs on microbial ecology. Here we use the highly urbanized Sydney Harbor, Australia, as a model system to investigate shifts in microbial community composition and function along natural and anthopogenic physicochemical gradients, driven by stormwater inflows, tidal flushing and the input of contaminants and both naturally and anthropogenically derived nutrients. Using a combination of amplicon sequencing of the 16S rRNA gene and shotgun metagenomics, we observed strong patterns in microbial biogeography across the estuary during two periods: one of high and another of low rainfall. These patterns were driven by shifts in nutrient concentration and dissolved oxygen leading to a partitioning of microbial community composition in different areas of the harbor with different nutrient regimes. Patterns in bacterial composition were related to shifts in the abundance of Rhodobacteraceae, Flavobacteriaceae, Microbacteriaceae, Halomonadaceae, Acidomicrobiales, and Synechococcus, coupled to an enrichment of total microbial metabolic pathways including phosphorus and nitrogen metabolism, sulfate reduction, virulence, and the degradation of hydrocarbons. Additionally, community beta-diversity was partitioned between the two sampling periods. This potentially reflected the influence of shifting allochtonous nutrient inputs on microbial communities and highlighted the temporally dynamic nature of the system. Combined, our results provide insights into the simultaneous influence of natural and anthropogenic drivers on the structure and function of microbial communities within a highly urbanized aquatic ecosystem.	2016	6	10.3389/fmicb.2015.01438
Frade, PR; Roll, K; Bergauer, K; Herndl, GJ	Archaeal and Bacterial Communities Associated with the Surface Mucus of Caribbean Corals Differ in Their Degree of Host Specificity and Community Turnover Over Reefs	PLOS ONE	Comparative studies on the distribution of archaeal versus bacterial communities associated with the surface mucus layer of corals have rarely taken place. It has therefore remained enigmatic whether mucus-associated archaeal and bacterial communities exhibit a similar specificity towards coral hosts and whether they vary in the same fashion over spatial gradients and between reef locations. We used microbial community profiling (terminal-restriction fragment length polymorphism, T-RFLP) and clone library sequencing of the 16S rRNA gene to compare the diversity and community structure of dominant archaeal and bacterial communities associating with the mucus of three common reef-building coral species (Porites astreoides, Siderastrea siderea and Orbicella annularis) over different spatial scales on a Caribbean fringing reef. Sampling locations included three reef sites, three reef patches within each site and two depths. Reference sediment samples and ambient water were also taken for each of the 18 sampling locations resulting in a total of 239 samples. While only 41% of the bacterial operational taxonomic units (OTUs) characterized by T-RFLP were shared between mucus and the ambient water or sediment, for archaeal OTUs this percentage was 2-fold higher (78%). About half of the mucus-associated OTUs (44% and 58% of bacterial and archaeal OTUs, respectively) were shared between the three coral species. Our multivariate statistical analysis (ANOSIM, PERMANOVA and CCA) showed that while the bacterial community composition was determined by habitat (mucus, sediment or seawater), host coral species, location and spatial distance, the archaeal community composition was solely determined by the habitat. This study highlights that mucus-associated archaeal and bacterial communities differ in their degree of community turnover over reefs and in their host-specificity.	2016	11	10.1371/journal.pone.0144702
Fiore-Donno, AM; Weinert, J; Wubet, T; Bonkowski, M	Metacommunity analysis of amoeboid protists in grassland soils	SCIENTIFIC REPORTS	This study reveals the diversity and distribution of two major ubiquitous groups of soil amoebae, the genus Acanthamoeba and the Myxomycetes (plasmodial slime-moulds) that are rarely, if ever, recovered in environmental sampling studies. We analyzed 150 grassland soil samples from three Biodiversity Exploratories study regions in Germany. We developed specific primers targeting the V2 variable region in the first part of the small subunit of the ribosomal RNA gene for high-throughput pyrotag sequencing. From ca. 1 million reads, applying very stringent filtering and clustering parameters to avoid overestimation of the diversity, we obtained 273 acanthamoebal and 338 myxomycete operational taxonomic units (OTUs, 96% similarity threshold). This number is consistent with the genetic diversity known in the two investigated lineages, but unequalled to date by any environmental sampling study. Only very few OTUs were identical to already known sequences. Strikingly different OTUs assemblages were found between the three German regions (PerMANOVA p. value = 0.001) and even between sites of the same region (multiple-site Simpson-based similarity indices <0.4), showing steep biogeographical gradients.	2016	6	10.1038/srep19068
Milici, M; Tomasch, J; Wos-Oxley, ML; Wang, H; Jauregui, R; Camarinha-Silva, A; Deng, ZL; Plumeier, I; Giebel, HA; Wurst, M; Pieper, DH; Simon, M; Wagner-Dobler, I	Low diversity of planktonic bacteria in the tropical ocean	SCIENTIFIC REPORTS	The diversity of macro-organisms increases towards the equator, with almost no exceptions. It is the most conserved biogeographical pattern on earth and is thought to be related to the increase of temperature and productivity in the tropics. The extent and orientation of a latitudinal gradient of marine bacterioplankton diversity is controversial. Here we studied the euphotic zone of the Atlantic Ocean based on a transect covering similar to 12.000 km from 51 degrees S to 47 degrees N. Water samples were collected at 26 stations at five depths between 20 and 200 m and sequentially filtered through 8 mu m, 3 mu m and 0,22 mu m filters, resulting in a total of 359 samples. Illumina sequencing of the V5-V6 region of the 16S rRNA gene revealed a clear biogeographic pattern with a double inverted latitudinal gradient. Diversity was higher in mid-latitudinal regions of the Atlantic Ocean and decreased towards the equator. This pattern was conserved for bacteria from all three planktonic size fractions. Diversity showed a non-linear relationship with temperature and was negatively correlated with bacterial cell numbers in the upper depth layers (<100 m). The latitudinal gradients of marine bacterial diversity and the mechanisms that govern them are distinct from those found in macro-organisms.	2016	6	10.1038/srep19054
Yilmaz, P; Yarza, P; Rapp, JZ; Glockner, FO	Expanding the World of Marine Bacterial and Archaeal Clades	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Determining which microbial taxa are out there, where they live, and what they are doing is a driving approach in marine microbial ecology. The importance of these questions is underlined by concerted, large-scale, and global ocean sampling initiatives, for example the International Census of Marine Microbes, Ocean Sampling Day, or Tara Oceans. Given decades of effort, we know that the large majority of marine Bacteria and Archaea belong to about a dozen phyla. In addition to the classically culturable Bacteria and Archaea, at least 50 clades, at different taxonomic depths, exist. These account for the majority of marine microbial diversity, but there is still an underexplored and less abundant portion remaining. We refer to these hitherto unrecognized clades as unknown, as their boundaries, names, and classifications are not available. In this work, we were able to characterize up to 92 of these unknown clades found within the bacterial and archaeal phylogenetic diversity currently reported for marine water column environments. We mined the SILVA 16S rRNA gene datasets for sequences originating from the marine water column. Instead of the usual subjective taxa delineation and nomenclature methods, we applied the candidate taxonomic unit (CTU) circumscription system, along with a standardized nomenclature to the sequences in newly constructed phylogenetic trees. With this new phylogenetic and taxonomic framework, we performed an analysis of ICoMM rRNA gene amplicon datasets to gain insights into the global distribution of the new marine clades, their ecology, biogeography, and interaction with oceanographic variables. Most of the new clades we identified were interspersed by known taxa with cultivated members, whose genome sequences are available. This result encouraged us to perform metabolic predictions for the novel marine clades using the PICRUSt approach. Our work also provides an update on the taxonomy of several phyla and widely known marine clades as our CTU approach breaks down these randomly lumped clades into smaller objectively calculated subgroups. Finally, all taxa were classified and named following standards compatible with the Bacteriological Code rules, enhancing their digitization, and comparability with future microbial ecological and taxonomy studies.	2016	6	10.3389/fmicb.2015.01524
Feres, JC; Porfirio-Sousa, AL; Ribeiro, GM; Rocha, GM; Sterza, JM; Souza, MBG; Soares, CEA; Lahr, DJG	Morphological and Morphometric Description of a Novel Shelled Amoeba Arcellagandalfi sp nov (Amoebozoa: Arcellinida) from Brazilian Continental Waters	ACTA PROTOZOOLOGICA	Arcellinida are free-living lobose amoebae that produce an outer shell (test). Here, we describe a conspicuous new species, Arcella gandalfi sp. nov, from Brazilian continental waters, along with a morphological and biometrical characterization. Test diameter and test height are on average 81 and 71 respectively. This new species has an apical conical extension, which differentiates it from other Arcella species. A. gandalfi seems to be closely-related to A. brasiliensis, due to the distinct marginal ring (test brim) present only in these two species. Since A. gandalfi is easily identified by morphological features and due to its apparent geographic restriction to South America, we discuss its possible use as a new flagship species.	2016	55	10.4467/16890027AP.16.021.6008
Kirchman, DL; Cottrel, MT; DiTullio, GR	Shaping of bacterial community composition and diversity by phytoplankton and salinity in the Delaware Estuary, USA	AQUATIC MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Our understanding of the impact of phytoplankton on bacterial communities is largely based on studies showing that a few bacteria have interactions with the phytoplankton class, which is often diatoms, dominating phytoplankton communities. To determine the effect of the complete phytoplankton community on the entire bacterial community, we used tag pyro sequences of the 16S rRNA gene and phytoplankton pigments measured by high performance liquid chromatography along with Chemtax analyses to examine bacterial and phytoplankton communities along the salinity gradient of the Delaware Estuary, USA, in August and November of 3 years (2011-2013). Salinity had a large effect on the composition, taxon richness, and evenness of bacterial communities in the estuary, but so too did the composition and biomass of the phytoplankton community. Phytoplankton classes had a larger effect in shaping the composition of bacterial communities than did total chlorophyll a. Although diatoms and cryptophytes dominated the phytoplankton communities in both August and November, less common phytoplankton classes, such as dinoflagellates, haptophytes, and prasinophytes, had more significant relationships with the entire bacterial community and with individual bacterial taxa. In contrast, the 2 most abundant bacterial subclades in the estuary, SAR11 IIIa and SAR 11 IIIb, had few significant relationships with chlorophyll a or with phytoplankton classes. These data on bacterial and phytoplankton community composition help to explain the weak coupling between bacteria and phytoplankton communities often observed in estuarine and other aquatic systems.	2016	78	10.3354/ame01805
Vouilloud, AA; Plata-Diaz, Y; Pedraza, E; Pimienta, A; Heguilor, S; Lamaro, A; Sala, SE	Distribution of Eunotia parasiolii (Bacillariophyceae) in Neotropical rivers (Colombia) and its implication on the speciess taxonomy	HIDROBIOLOGICA	Background. Microorganisms have traditionally been considered cosmopolitan. Nevertheless, recent studies of diverse groups demonstrated that this is an erroneous concept. Reviews of diatoms from the Neotropics have shown high biodiversity and numerous endemic species. Colombia has great habitat diversity in relatively small areas due to its latitudinal position and topography, so it is an ideal site for biogeographic studies. One of the better represented genera in lowland rivers, Eunotia and Eunotia parasiolii, a Neotropical species, was reported in several countries in the region. Goals. In order to establish whether the three morphotypes found are discrete taxonomic entities, their morphometric data, fine morphology and geographical distribution were analyzed. Methods. 170 periphyton samples corresponding to 83 lotic systems were analyzed. Samples were prepared following the CENT/TC 230 (2002) protocol. They were observed with light (LM) and scanning electronic microscope (SEM). Distribution maps were made using GIS and a Morans I autocorrelation spatial index was applied. Results. The analyses of several specimens collected at 83 lotic systems allowed us to differentiate a priori 3 morphotypes based on the valve outline, development of subapical costae, and striae density. The species was extensively distributed in the study area, in basins with different hydrogeomorphology and chemical characteristics. The morphological characteristics that distinguish these morphotypes varied gradually; besides, the morphotypes were randomly distributed. Conclusions. We conclude that Eunotia parasiolii is a species with a great morphological variability and wide distribution. We propose to emend the description of the species, since the original diagnosis does not include characteristics of the fine structure of the frustules and therefore is insufficient to differentiate it from its allied taxa.	2016	26	
Peay, KG	The Mutualistic Niche: Mycorrhizal Symbiosis and Community Dynamics	ANNUAL REVIEW OF ECOLOGY, EVOLUTION, AND SYSTEMATICS, VOL 47	The niche is generally viewed in terms of species intrinsic physiological potential and limitations due to competition. Although DNA sequencing has revealed the ubiquity of beneficial microbial symbioses, the role of mutualisms in shaping species niches is not broadly recognized. In this review, I use a widespread terrestrial mutualism, the ectomycorrhizal symbiosis, to help develop the mutualistic niche concept. Using contemporary niche theory, I show how mycorrhizal symbioses expand environmental ranges (requirement niche) and influence resource use (impact niche) for both plants and fungi. Simple niche models for competition between resource specialists and generalists also predict a range of ecological phenomena, from unexpected monodominance by some tropical trees to the functional biogeography of mycorrhizal symbiosis. A niche-based view of mutualism may also help explain stability of mutualisms even in the absence of clear benefits. The niche is a central concept in ecology, and better integration of mutualism will more accurately reflect the positive interactions experienced by nearly all species.	2016	47	10.1146/annurev-ecolsys-121415-032100
Keuter, S; Rinkevich, B	Spatial homogeneity of bacterial and archaeal communities in the deep eastern Mediterranean Sea surface sediments	INTERNATIONAL MICROBIOLOGY	The diversity of microorganisms inhabiting the deep sea surface sediments was investigated in 9 stations (700-1900 m depth) in the Levantine basin by 454 massive tag sequencing of the 16S rDNA V4 region using universal primers. In total, 108,811 reads (an average of 10,088 per sample) were assigned to 5014 bacterial and 966 archaeal operational taxonomic units (OTUs; at 97% cut off). The 55% of the reads were of archaea, indicating dominance of archaea over bacteria at eight of the stations. The diversity and estimated richness values were high (e.g., H ranged from 5.66 to 7.41 for bacteria). The compositions of the microorganisms at all stations were remarkably similar, with Bray-Curtis similarities of 0.53-0.91 and 0.74-0.99 for bacterial and archaeal orders respectively. At two stations, very high abundances of only a few genera (Marinobacterium, Bacillus, Vibrio, Photobacterium) were accountable for the dissimilarities documented compared to the other deep sea stations. Half of the bacterial reads (51%) belonged to the phylum Proteobacteria, comprising mainly Gammaproteobacteria (41-72% of the proteobacterial reads per sample), Deltaproteobacteria (12-29%), Alphaproteobacteria (7-18%) and Betaproteobacteria (3-14%). The most abundant bacterial family was Sinobacteraceae (order Xanthomonadales) with 5-10% of total bacterial reads per sample. Most abundant reads (15.4% of all microbial reads) were affiliated with Marine Group 1 archaea, putatively capable of ammonia oxidation (213 OTUs), and bacteria involved in nitrification were found in all samples. The data point to the significant role that chemolithotrophic carbon assimilation and nitrification fill in the oligotrophic deep sea Levant sediments.	2016	19	10.2436/20.1501.01.269
Song, W; Li, LZ; Huang, HL; Jiang, KJ; Zhang, FY; Chen, XZ; Zhao, M; Ma, LB	The Gut Microbial Community of Antarctic Fish Detected by 16S rRNA Gene Sequence Analysis	BIOMED RESEARCH INTERNATIONAL	Intestinal bacterial communities are highly relevant to the digestion, nutrition, growth, reproduction, and a range of fitness in fish, but little is known about the gut microbial community in Antarctic fish. In this study, the composition of intestinal microbial community in four species of Antarctic fish was detected based on 16S rRNA gene sequencing. As a result, 1 004 639 sequences were obtained from 13 samples identified into 36 phyla and 804 genera, in which Proteobacteria, Actinobacteria, Firmicutes, Thermi, and Bacteroidetes were the dominant phyla, and Rhodococcus, Thermus, Acinetobacter, Propionibacterium, Streptococcus, and Mycoplasma were the dominant genera. The number of common OTUs (operational taxonomic units) varied from 346 to 768, while unique OTUs varied from 84 to 694 in the four species of Antarctic fish. Moreover, intestinal bacterial communities in individuals of each species were not really similar, and those in the four species were not absolutely different, suggesting that bacterial communities might influence the physiological characteristics of Antarctic fish, and the common bacterial communities might contribute to the fish survival ability in extreme Antarctic environment, while the different ones were related to the living habits. All of these results could offer certain information for the future study of Antarctic fish physiological characteristics.	2016		10.1155/2016/3241529
Zhang, BL; Wu, XK; Zhang, W; Chen, XM; Zhang, GS; Ai, X; Sun, LK; Zhang, BG; Liu, GX; Chen, T; Dyson, P	Diversity and Succession of Actinobacteria in the Forelands of the Tianshan Glacier, China	GEOMICROBIOLOGY JOURNAL	Actinobacteria are typically soil bacteria that have important roles in soil development and biogeochemical cycling. However, little is known about the occurrence or the succession of communities of Actinobacteria in new habitats. In this study, we investigated the diversity and succession of the actinobacterial communities that inhabited the forelands of the Tianshan Glacier (China), which ranged in successional age from 0 to 100 years since the forefield was deglaciated. Actinobacteria was one of the dominant phyla in the glacier foreland and included the orders Acidimicrobiales, Actinomycetales, Rubrobacteriales and Solirubrobacteriales. Actinomycetales was the dominant order, but its relative abundance decreased through the chronosequence. Acidimicrobiales and Solirubrobacteriales were more abundant in the late stages of succession than in the early ones. The abundance of Rubrobacteriales was only high at 74a. The dominant genera Nocardioides and Arthrobacter were widely distributed and were found in each stage of succession. With nonparametric and rarefaction estimated analyses, we found that the phylotype richness of Actinobacteria was significantly correlated with time (r = 0.886, p = 0.019). The succession of actinobacterial communities was divided into 3 stages: the early stage (6a), the intermediate stage (10a and 20a) and the late stage (60a, 74a, and 100a). Based on the canonical correspondence analysis, the actinobacterial communities were affected significantly by soil pH (r = 0.834, p = 0.039) and somewhat by the C/N ratio (r = 0.783, p = 0.066). The nonmetric multidimensional scaling analysis showed that the effect of geographical isolation on the actinobacterial communities was greater than that of the soils in the development of the chronosequence.	2016	33	10.1080/01490451.2015.1085468
Vlachos, C; Gaitanis, G; Katsanos, KH; Christodoulou, DK; Tsianos, E; Bassukas, ID	Psoriasis and inflammatory bowel disease: links and risks	PSORIASIS-TARGETS AND THERAPY	Psoriasis and the spectrum of inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD) are chronic, inflammatory, organotropic conditions. The epidemiologic coexistence of these diseases is corroborated by findings at the level of disease, biogeography, and intrafamilial and intrapatient coincidence. The identification of shared susceptibility loci and DNA polymorphisms has confirmed this correlation at a genetic level. The pathogenesis of both diseases implicates the innate and adaptive segments of the immune system. Increased permeability of the epidermal barrier in skin and intestine underlies the augmented interaction of allergens and pathogens with inflammatory receptors of immune cells. The immune response between psoriasis and IBD is similar and comprises phagocytic, dendritic, and natural killer cell, along with a milieu of cytokines and antimicrobial peptides that stimulate T-cells. The interplay between dendritic cells and Th17 cells appears to be the core dysregulated immune pathway in all these conditions. The distinct similarities in the pathogenesis are also reflected in the wide overlapping of their therapeutic approaches. Small-molecule pharmacologic immunomodulators have been applied, and more recently, biologic treatments that target proinflammatory interleukins have been introduced or are currently being evaluated. However, the fact that some treatments are quite selective for either skin or gut conditions also highlights their crucial pathophysiologic differences. In the present review, a comprehensive comparison of risk factors, pathogenesis links, and therapeutic strategies for psoriasis and IBD is presented. Specific emphasis is placed on the role of the immune cell species and inflammatory mediators participating in the pathogenesis of these diseases.	2016	6	10.2147/PTT.S85194
Vasilyeva, LN; Stephenson, SL; Hyde, KD	Some stromatic pyrenomycetous fungi from northern Thailand-2. Annulohypoxylon and Ustulina	MYCOTAXON	Fourteen species of Annulohypoxylon and one species of Ustulina collected in northern Thailand are discussed. Only three of the species (Annulohypoxylon hahnphadengense, A. bogoriense comb. nov., A. urceolatum) have been reported previously from southeastern Asia. The other twelve species (A. chiangmaiense, A. derelictum, A. dipterocarpi, A. maesaeense, A. microbovei, A. morisuspecturn A. neglecturn, A. paratruncatum, A. plunodiscum, pseudonitens, A. sordidum, Ustulina pseudozonota) are proposed as spp. nov., described, and illustrated.	2016	131	10.5248/131.61
Parmar, TK; Rawtani, D; Agrawal, YK	Bioindicators: the natural indicator of environmental pollution	FRONTIERS IN LIFE SCIENCE	Bioindicators are living organisms such as plants, planktons, animals, and microbes, which are utilized to screen the health of the natural ecosystem in the environment. They are used for assessing environmental health and biogeographic changes taking place in the environment. Each organic entity inside a biological system provides an indication regarding the health of its surroundings such as plankton responding rapidly to changes taking place in the surrounding environment and serving as an important biomarker for assessing the quality of water as well as an indicator of water pollution. Even the health of aquatic flora is best reflected by plankton, which acts as an early warning signal. In this review we have tried to explain the concept behind Bioindicators and plankton, with particular emphasis on their potential to be used as Bioindicators for water quality assessment and outcomes relating to this.	2016	9	10.1080/21553769.2016.1162753
Borghini, F; Colacevich, A; Caruso, T; Bargagli, R	Algal biomass and pigments along a latitudinal gradient in Victoria Land lakes, East Antarctica	POLAR RESEARCH	It is generally accepted that Antarctic terrestrial diversity decreases as latitude increases, but latitudinal patterns of several organisms are not always as clear as expected. The Victoria Land region is rich in lakes and ponds and spans 8 degrees of latitude that encompasses gradients in factors such as solar radiation, temperature, ice cover and day length. An understanding of the links between latitudinally driven environmental and biodiversity changes is essential to the understanding of the ecology and evolution of Antarctic biota and the formulation of hypotheses about likely future changes in biodiversity. As several studies have demonstrated that photosynthetic pigments are an excellent, although underused, tool for the study of lacustrine algal communities, the aim of the present study was to investigate variations in algal biomass and biodiversity across the latitudinal gradient of Victoria Land using sedimentary pigments. We test the hypothesis that the biodiversity of freshwater environments decreases as latitude increases. On the basis of our results, we propose using the number of sedimentary pigments as a proxy for algal diversity and the sum of chlorophyll a and bacteriochlorophyll a with their degradation derivatives as an index of biomass. Overall, our data show that biomass and diversity decrease as latitude increases but local environmental conditions, in particular, natural levels of eutrophy, can affect both productivity and diversity.	2016	35	10.3402/polar.v35.20703
Coleman-Derr, D; Desgarennes, D; Fonseca-Garcia, C; Gross, S; Clingenpeel, S; Woyke, T; North, G; Visel, A; Partida-Martinez, LP; Tringe, SG	Plant compartment and biogeography affect microbiome composition in cultivated and native Agave species	NEW PHYTOLOGIST	Desert plants are hypothesized to survive the environmental stress inherent to these regions in part thanks to symbioses with microorganisms, and yet these microbial species, the communities they form, and the forces that influence them are poorly understood. Here we report the first comprehensive investigation of the microbial communities associated with species of Agave, which are native to semiarid and arid regions of Central and North America and are emerging as biofuel feedstocks. We examined prokaryotic and fungal communities in the rhizosphere, phyllosphere, leaf and root endosphere, as well as proximal and distal soil samples from cultivated and native agaves, through Illumina amplicon sequencing. Phylogenetic profiling revealed that the composition of prokaryotic communities was primarily determined by the plant compartment, whereas the composition of fungal communities was mainly influenced by the biogeography of the host species. Cultivated A. tequilana exhibited lower levels of prokaryotic diversity compared with native agaves, although no differences in microbial diversity were found in the endosphere. Agaves shared core prokaryotic and fungal taxa known to promote plant growth and confer tolerance to abiotic stress, which suggests common principles underpinning Agave-microbe interactions.	2016	209	10.1111/nph.13697
Powell, JR; Bennett, AE	Unpredictable assembly of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungal communities	PEDOBIOLOGIA	In their analysis of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungal communities sampled from roots collected around the globe, Davison et al. (2015, Science 349: 970) demonstrated that these fungi exhibit low endemism and suggested that their biogeography is largely determined by local environmental conditions. Here, we show that, within similar environments, these communities are largely unpredictable based on environmental conditions and exhibit patterns that are either consistent with neutral models of community assembly or are more stochastic than what models based on environmental filtering, niche based assembly, or neutrality would predict. We also show that the degree of unpredictability is related to geography and the characteristics of the host plant, suggesting opportunities for future research to understand assembly processes in mycorrhizal fungal communities. (C) 2015 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.	2016	59	10.1016/j.pedobi.2015.12.001
Mazzetto, AM; Feigl, BJ; Cerri, CEP; Cerri, CC	Comparing how land use change impacts soil microbial catabolic respiration in Southwestern Amazon	BRAZILIAN JOURNAL OF MICROBIOLOGY	Land use changes strongly impact soil functions, particularly microbial biomass diversity and activity. We hypothesized that the catabolic respiration response of the microbial biomass would differ depending on land use and that these differences would be consistent at the landscape scale. In the present study, we analyzed the catabolic response profile of the soil microbial biomass through substrate-induced respiration in different land uses over a wide geographical range in Mato Grosso and Rondnia state (Southwest Amazon region). We analyzed the differences among native areas, pastures and crop areas and within each land use and examined only native areas (Forest, Dense Cerrado and Cerrado), pastures (Nominal, Degraded and Improved) and crop areas (Perennial, No-Tillage, Conventional Tillage). The metabolic profile of the microbial biomass was accessed using substrate-induced respiration. Pasture soils showed significant responses to amino acids and carboxylic acids, whereas native areas showed higher responses to malonic acid, malic acid and succinic acid. Within each land use category, the catabolic responses showed similar patterns in both large general comparisons (native area, pasture and crop areas) and more specific comparisons (biomes, pastures and crop types). The results showed that the catabolic responses of the microbial biomass are highly correlated with land use, independent of soil type or climate. The substrate induced respiration approach is useful to discriminate microbial communities, even on a large scale. (C) 2015 Sociedade Brasileira de Microbiologia. Published by Elsevier Editora Ltda	2016	47	10.1016/j.bjm.2015.11.025
Iancu, L; Sahlean, T; Purcarea, C	Dynamics of Necrophagous Insect and Tissue Bacteria for Postmortem Interval Estimation During the Warm Season in Romania	JOURNAL OF MEDICAL ENTOMOLOGY	The estimation of postmortem interval (PMI) is affected by several factors including the cause of death, the place where the body lay after death, and the weather conditions during decomposition. Given the climatic differences among biogeographic locations, the understanding of necrophagous insect species biology and ecology is required when estimating PMI. The current experimental model was developed in Romania during the warm season in an outdoor location. The aim of the study was to identify the necrophagous insect species diversity and dynamics, and to detect the bacterial species present during decomposition in order to determine if their presence or incidence timing could be useful to estimate PMI. The decomposition process of domestic swine carcasses was monitored throughout a 14-wk period (10 July-10 October 2013), along with a daily record of meteorological parameters. The chronological succession of necrophagous entomofauna comprised nine Diptera species, with the dominant presence of Chrysomya albiceps (Wiedemann 1819) (Calliphoridae), while only two Coleoptera species were identified, Dermestes undulatus (L. 1758) and Creophilus maxillosus Brahm 1970. The bacterial diversity and dynamics from the mouth and rectum tissues, and third-instar dipteran larvae were identified using denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis analysis and sequencing of bacterial 16S rRNA gene fragments. Throughout the decomposition process, two main bacterial chronological groups were differentiated, represented by Firmicutes and Gammaproteobacteria. Twenty-six taxa from the rectal cavity and 22 from the mouth cavity were identified, with the dominant phylum in both these cavities corresponding to Firmicutes. The present data strengthen the postmortem entomological and microbial information for the warm season in this temperate-continental area, as well as the role of microbes in carcass decomposition.	2016	53	10.1093/jme/tjv156
Mazei, Y; Belyakova, O; Coppellotti, O; Payne, RJ	Testate Amoeba Communities of Epilithic Mosses and Lichens: New Data from Russia, Switzerland and Italy	ACTA PROTOZOOLOGICA	The testate amoebae (TA) of many potential habitats around the world have been barely investigated but data on species presence and abundance is essential to answering big questions about microbial biogeography and the diversity of protist life. One such habitat lacking basic data is epilithic mosses and lichens with only a small number of samples analysed in previous studies and no systematic attempt to understand potential environmental controls. We use a large dataset (n = 81) from sites in Russia, Switzerland and Italy to demonstrate that testate amoebae in this habitat are both abundant and diverse. The community of our samples was dominated by ubiquitous taxa and differed between the northern (Russia) and southern (Switzerland and Italy) sites, perhaps due to differences in climate or air quality. Community composition, concentration and diversity were explained by moisture content but not by elevation above the ground surface and there were no significant differences between communities of mosses and lichens. Surprisingly our data showed a significant difference between communities of epiphytic and epilithic lichens in the same region sampled at the same time. Our study adds to the evidence that moisture availability is a critical factor in structuring testate amoeba communities across habitats and highlights the paucity of knowledge of TA in many environments.	2016	55	10.4467/16890027AP.16.006.4047
Angermeyer, A; Crosby, SC; Huber, JA	Decoupled distance-decay patterns between dsrA and 16S rRNA genes among salt marsh sulfate-reducing bacteria	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	In many habitats, microorganisms exhibit significant distance-decay patterns as determined by analysis of the 16S rRNA gene and various other genetic elements. However, there have been few studies that examine how the similarities of both taxonomic and functional genes co-vary over geographic distance within a group of ecologically related microbes. Here, we determined the biogeographic patterns of the functional dissimilatory sulfite reductase gene (dsrA) and the 16S rRNA gene in sulfate-reducing bacterial communities of US East Coast salt marsh sediments. Distance-decay, ordination and statistical analyses revealed that the distribution of 16S rRNA genes is strongly influenced by geographic distance and environmental factors, whereas the dsrA gene is not. Together, our results indicate that 16S rRNA genes are likely dispersal limited and under environmental selection, whereas dsrA genes appear randomly distributed and not selected for by any expected environmental variables. Selection, drift, dispersal and mutation are all factors that may help explain the decoupled biogeographic patterns for the two genes. These data suggest that both the taxonomic and functional elements of microbial communities should be considered in future studies of microbial biogeography to aid in our understanding of the diversity, distribution and function of microorganisms in the environment.	2016	18	10.1111/1462-2920.12821
Pradel, N; Fuduche, M; Ollivier, B	Magnetotactic bacteria population in a pristine French Atlantic lagoon	ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE AND POLLUTION RESEARCH	In this study, we report for the first time the presence of magnetotactic bacteria (MTB) on the Northeastern Atlantic coast. Microscopy observations indicated a heterogeneous population of MTB morphotypes. The analysis of the 16S rDNA by pyrosequencing technology revealed four operational taxonomic sequence units affiliated within the Magnetococcales order, class Alphaproteobacteria. One of them was closely related to sequences of MTB from the Tunisian coast, central Mediterranean Sea. This work offers information on anew environmental context and on biogeography of MTB, highlights the putative impact that marine currents may have on MTB distribution on Earth, and underlines the role that pristine or polluted areas may play on the structure of the MTB communites.	2016	23	10.1007/s11356-015-5322-9
Shen, LD; Wu, HS; Gao, ZQ; Ruan, YJ; Xu, XH; Li, J; Ma, SJ; Zheng, PH	Evidence for anaerobic ammonium oxidation process in freshwater sediments of aquaculture ponds	ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE AND POLLUTION RESEARCH	The anaerobic ammonium oxidation (anammox) process, which can simultaneously remove ammonium and nitrite, both toxic to aquatic animals, can be very important to the aquaculture industry. Here, the presence and activity of anammox bacteria in the sediments of four different freshwater aquaculture ponds were investigated by using Illumina-based 16S rRNA gene sequencing, quantitative PCR assays and N-15 stable isotope measurements. Different genera of anammox bacteria were detected in the examined pond sediments, including Candidatus Brocadia, Candidatus Kuenenia and Candidatus Anammoxoglobus, with Candidatus Brocadia being the dominant anammox genus. Quantitative PCR of hydrazine synthase genes showed that the abundance of anammox bacteria ranged from 5.6 x 10(4) to 2.1 x 10(5) copies g(-1) sediment in the examined ponds. The potential anammox rates ranged between 3.7 and 19.4 nmol N-2 g(-1) sediment day(-1), and the potential denitrification rates varied from 107.1 to 300.3 nmol N-2 g(-1) sediment day(-1). The anammox process contributed 1.2-15.3 % to sediment dinitrogen gas production, while the remainder would be due to denitrification. It is estimated that a total loss of 2.1-10.9 g N m(-2) per year could be attributed to the anammox process in the examined ponds, suggesting that this process could contribute to nitrogen removal in freshwater aquaculture ponds.	2016	23	10.1007/s11356-015-5356-z
Mock, T; Daines, SJ; Geider, R; Collins, S; Metodiev, M; Millar, AJ; Moulton, V; Lenton, TM	Bridging the gap between omics and earth system science to better understand how environmental change impacts marine microbes	GLOBAL CHANGE BIOLOGY	The advent of genomic-, transcriptomic- and proteomic-based approaches has revolutionized our ability to describe marine microbial communities, including biogeography, metabolic potential and diversity, mechanisms of adaptation, and phylogeny and evolutionary history. New interdisciplinary approaches are needed to move from this descriptive level to improved quantitative, process-level understanding of the roles of marine microbes in biogeochemical cycles and of the impact of environmental change on the marine microbial ecosystem. Linking studies at levels from the genome to the organism, to ecological strategies and organism and ecosystem response, requires new modelling approaches. Key to this will be a fundamental shift in modelling scale that represents micro-organisms from the level of their macromolecular components. This will enable contact with omics data sets and allow acclimation and adaptive response at the phenotype level (i.e. traits) to be simulated as a combination of fitness maximization and evolutionary constraints. This way forward will build on ecological approaches that identify key organism traits and systems biology approaches that integrate traditional physiological measurements with new insights from omics. It will rely on developing an improved understanding of ecophysiology to understand quantitatively environmental controls on microbial growth strategies. It will also incorporate results from experimental evolution studies in the representation of adaptation. The resulting ecosystem-level models can then evaluate our level of understanding of controls on ecosystem structure and function, highlight major gaps in understanding and help prioritize areas for future research programs. Ultimately, this grand synthesis should improve predictive capability of the ecosystem response to multiple environmental drivers.	2016	22	10.1111/gcb.12983
Jean, K; Burnside, WR; Carlson, L; Smith, K; Guegan, JF	An equilibrium theory signature in the island biogeography of human parasites and pathogens	GLOBAL ECOLOGY AND BIOGEOGRAPHY	Aim Our understanding of the ecology and biogeography of microbes, including those that cause human disease, lags behind that for larger species. Despite recent focus on the geographical distribution of viruses and bacteria, the overall environmental distribution of human pathogens and parasites on Earth remains incompletely understood. As islands have long inspired basic ecological insights, we aimed to assess whether the microorganisms that cause human disease in modern times follow patterns common to insular plants and animals. Location Global and regional. Methods Relying on the publically accessible GIDEON database, we use the spatial distribution of nearly 300 human parasites and pathogens across 66 island countries and territories to assess the current predictive value of the equilibrium theory of island biogeography. The relationships between species richness and (1) island surface area and (2) distance to the nearest mainland were investigated with linear regression, and ANCOVAs were used to test for differences in these relationships with respect to pathogen ecology and taxonomy. Results Pathogen species richness increases with island surface area and decreases with distance to the nearest mainland. The effect of area is more than 10 times lower than that usually reported for macroorganisms, but is greater than the effect of distance. The strongest relationships are for pathogens that are vector-borne, zoonotic (with humans as dead-end hosts) or protozoan. Main conclusion Our results support the basic predictions of the theory: disease diversity is a positive function of island area and a negative function of island isolation. However, differences in the effects of area, distance and pathogen ecology suggest that globalization, probably through human travel and the animal trade, has softened these relationships. Parasites that primarily target non-human species, whose distributions are more constrained by island life than are those restricted to human hosts, drive the island biogeography of human disease.	2016	25	10.1111/geb.12393
Chagnon, PL; URen, JM; Miadlikowska, J; Lutzoni, F; Arnold, AE	Interaction type influences ecological network structure more than local abiotic conditions: evidence from endophytic and endolichenic fungi at a continental scale	OECOLOGIA	Understanding the factors that shape community assembly remains one of the most enduring and important questions in modern ecology. Network theory can reveal rules of community assembly within and across study systems and suggest novel hypotheses regarding the formation and stability of communities. However, such studies generally face the challenge of disentangling the relative influence of factors such as interaction type and environmental conditions on shaping communities and associated networks. Endophytic and endolichenic symbioses, characterized by microbial species that occur within healthy plants and lichen thalli, represent some of the most ubiquitous interactions in nature. Fungi that engage in these symbioses are hyperdiverse, often horizontally transmitted, and functionally beneficial in many cases, and they represent the diversification of multiple phylogenetic groups. We evaluated six measures of ecological network structure for > 4100 isolates of endophytic and endolichenic fungi collected systematically from five sites across North America. Our comparison of these co-occurring interactions in biomes ranging from tundra to subtropical forest showed that the type of interactions (i.e., endophytic vs. endolichenic) had a much more pronounced influence on network structure than did environmental conditions. In particular, endophytic networks were less nested, less connected, and more modular than endolichenic networks in all sites. The consistency of the network structure within each interaction type, independent of site, is encouraging for current efforts devoted to gathering metadata on ecological network structure at a global scale. We discuss several mechanisms potentially responsible for such patterns and draw attention to knowledge gaps in our understanding of networks for diverse interaction types.	2016	180	10.1007/s00442-015-3457-5
Cousins, CR; Cockell, CS	An ESA roadmap for geobiology in space exploration	ACTA ASTRONAUTICA	Geobiology, and in particular mineral-microbe interactions, has a significant role to play in current and future space exploration. This includes the search for biosignatures in extraterrestrial environments, and the human exploration of space. Microorganisms can be exploited to advance such exploration, such as through biomining, maintenance of life-support systems, and testing of life-detection instrumentation. In view of these potential applications, a European Space Agency (ESA) Topical Team Geobiology in Space Exploration was developed to explore these applications, and identify research avenues to be investigated to support this endeavour. Through community workshops, a roadmap was produced, with which to define future research directions via a set of 15 recommendations spanning three key areas: Science, Technology, and Community. These roadmap recommendations identify the need for research into: (1) new terrestrial space-analogue environments; (2) community level microbial-mineral interactions; (3) response of biofilms to the space environment; (4) enzymatic and biochemical mineral interaction; (5) technical refinement of instrumentation for space-based microbiology experiments, including precursor flight tests; (6) integration of existing ground-based planetary simulation facilities; (7) integration of fieldsite biogeography with laboratory- and field-based research; (8) modification of existing planetary instruments for new geobiological investigations; (9) development of in situ sample preparation techniques; (10) miniaturisation of existing analytical methods, such as DNA sequencing technology; (11) new sensor technology to analyse chemical interaction in small volume samples; (12) development of reusable Lunar and Near Earth Object experimental platforms; (13) utility of Earth-based research to enable the realistic pursuit of extraterrestrial biosignatures; (14) terrestrial benefits and technological spin-off from existing and future space-based geobiology investigations; and (15) new communication avenues between space agencies and terrestrial research organisations to enable this impact to be developed. (C) 2015 IAA. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2016	118	10.1016/j.actaastro.2015.10.022
Wang, XG; Li, H; Bezemer, TM; Hao, ZQ	Drivers of bacterial beta diversity in two temperate forests	ECOLOGICAL RESEARCH	Although the consequences of changes in microbial diversity have received increasing attention, our understanding of processes that drive spatial variation in microbial diversity remains limited. In this study, we sampled bacterial communities in early and late successional temperate forests in Northeast China, and used distance-based redundancy analysis to examine how different processes influence bacterial beta diversity and phylogeny-based beta diversity using the Bray-Curtis and UniFrac metrics, respectively. After controlling for sampling effects, bacterial beta diversity in both forests was higher than expected by chance, which indicates that the bacterial community showed strong intraspecific aggregation. Both environmental filtering and dispersal limitation contributed to bacterial beta diversity and phylogeny-based beta diversity in the two forests. However, the relative importance of these different processes varied between the two forests. In the early successional forest, dispersal limitation played a dominant role in structuring the bacterial community, whereas the effects of environmental filtering were more important in the late successional forest. Our study revealed that bacterial beta diversity and phylogeny-based beta diversity in forest communities from the same region are regulated by different forces and that the relative importance of different forces varies over succession.	2016	31	10.1007/s11284-015-1313-z
Hines, HN; McCarthy, PJ; Esteban, GF	The First Record for the Americas of Loxodes rex, a Flagship Ciliate with an Alleged Restricted Biogeography	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	As the foundations of food webs, protozoa are essential to the success of an ecological system. These organisms are often overlooked, and research in the Americas is sparse. Recent samplings conducted in freshwater canals and ponds in Florida, USA, have revealed Loxodes rex, an alleged endemic ciliate species. Originally described as endemic to tropical Africa, L. rex has been considered a prime candidate for proof of microbial endemism. Our studies have shown this giant, non-encysting ciliate to be thriving in subtropical Florida. Our observations are novel and include both the first record of occurrence for the Americas and the first high-quality in vivo images for this charismatic species.	2016	71	10.1007/s00248-015-0656-x
Aguirre-Garrido, JF; Ramirez-Saad, HC; Toro, N; Martinez-Abarca, F	Bacterial Diversity in the Soda Saline Crater Lake from Isabel Island, Mexico	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Isabel Lake is a moderate saline soda crater lake located in Isabel Island in the eastern tropical Pacific coast of Mexico. Lake is mainly formed by rainfall and is strongly affected by evaporation and high input of nutrients derived from excretions of a large bird community inhabiting the island. So far, only the island macrobiota has been studied. The knowledge of the prokaryotic biota inhabiting the upper layers of this meromictic lake can give clues for the maintenance of this ecosystem. We assessed the diversity and composition of prokaryotic community in sediments and water of the lake by DGGE profiling, 16S rRNA gene amplicon pyrosequencing, and cultivation techniques. The bacterial community is largely dominated by halophilic and halotolerant microorganisms. Alpha diversity estimations reveal higher value in sediments than in water (P > 0.005). The lake water is dominated by gamma-Proteobacteria belonging to four main families where Halomonadaceae presents the highest abundance. Aerobic, phototrophic, and halotolerant prokaryotes such as Cyanobacteria GPIIa, Halomonas, Alcanivorax, Idiomarina, and Cyclobacterium genera are commonly found. However, in sediment samples, Formosa, Muricauda, and Salegentibacter genera corresponding to Flavobacteriaceae family accounted for 15-20 % of the diversity. Heterotrophs like those involved in sulfur cycle, Desulfotignum, Desulfuromonas, Desulfofustis, and Desulfopila, appear to play an important role in sediments. Finally, a collection of aerobic halophilic bacterial isolates was created from these samples; members of the genus Halomonas were predominantly isolated from lake water. This study contributes to state the bacterial diversity present in this particular soda saline crater lake.	2016	71	10.1007/s00248-015-0676-6
Creamer, RE; Stone, D; Berry, P; Kuiper, I	Measuring respiration profiles of soil microbial communities across Europe using MicroResp (TM) method	APPLIED SOIL ECOLOGY	A European transect was established to assess soil microbial activity, using the MicroResp (TM) method, as part of a larger project looking at soil biodiversity and function across Europe. 81 sites were sampled across five biogeographical zones described and mapped in the [EA report (EEA, 2012) and included the following classes; Boreal, Atlantic, Continental, Mediterranean and Alpine, three land-use types (Arable, Grass and Forest) incorporating a wide range of soil pH, soil organic carbon (org C) and texture. Seven carbon substrates were used to determine multiple substrate induced respiration (MSIR), incorporating; acids, bases, sugars and amino acids. Substrates included: D-(+)-galactose, L-malic acid, gamma amino butyric acid, n-acetyl glucosamine, D-(+)-glucose, alpha ketogluterate, citric acid and water. MicroResp (TM) results showed discrimination of land-use type over a large spatial scale and response to soil pH and soil organic carbon. Substrates behaved differently depending upon combinations of land-use and soil properties specifically the greater utilisation of carboxylic acid based substrates in arable sites. (C) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2016	97	10.1016/j.apsoil.2015.08.004
Hendriksen, NB; Creamer, RE; Stone, D; Winding, A	Soil exo-enzyme activities across Europe-The influence of climate, land-use and soil properties	APPLIED SOIL ECOLOGY	The assessment and monitoring requirements of soil quality have been debated for many years at European and Global scales. To monitor the activity and diversity of microbial communities a number of methods have been applied including the activity of extracellular soil enzymes. Here is the activity of eight hydrolytic extracellular enzymes on 79 sites across Europe measured, the sites are from five different climatic zones with three different land-uses, and they vary in physicochemical characteristics. The results show that the activity of the enzymes primarily depends on soil organic matter and to a lesser extent on pH, while the activities were not related to climate or land-use. Sites were selected to represent a broad spectrum of key soil properties across three different land-uses and five different climatic biogeographical zones across Europe, so the overall conclusion is based on the analysis of soils representing soil characteristics across Europe. (C) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2016	97	10.1016/j.apsoil.2015.08.012
Francisco, R; Stone, D; Creamer, RE; Sousa, JP; Morais, PV	European scale analysis of phospholipid fatty acid composition of soils to establish operating ranges	APPLIED SOIL ECOLOGY	Recent preoccupations regarding possible negative effects of pollution, inappropriate land management, climate change, desertification, erosion, compaction or over-exploitation on soils has led to initiatives for the survey of soils. One of them, EcoFINDERS, launched a pan-European survey in order to define normal operating ranges for soil biodiversity and quality, through the use of several methodologies. The objective of the current work was the characterization of European soils under different land uses and from representative bio-geographical locations, using a PLEA method developed in the context of the mentioned survey, in order to recognize and define operation ranges for soil PLEA. PLEA analysis demonstrated to be a valuable tool in the evaluation, comparison and distinction of several land uses and biogeographical (BG) zones. The analysis of the PLEA diversity with PCA and PERMANOVA/SIMPER demonstrated a good separation of soil samples relatively to each defined land use and BG zone. Soils of the same BG zone and land use group showed an average biomarker constitution with consistent differences of PLFA/biomarker compositions relatively to other groups, especially concerning land uses. Total PLEA biomass was consistently higher in non-arable environments, i.e., forest or grass soils. Arable soils contained a total PLEA biomass that was in average 2.5-2.9 times lower than grassland or forest soil. Arable and grassland soils contained significantly low relative quantities of the saprophytic Fungi biomarker 18:2 omega 6,9c (which decreased more than 18:1 omega 9c), and low Total Fungi biomarkers/Bacteria biomarkers ratio (TF/B). The opposite occurred in forestry soil samples, and the Boreal BG zone stood out, showing the highest total fungal composition, with a most important contribution of the 18:2 omega 6.9c saprophytic Fungi biomarker. Grasslands (all BG zones) showed to be the richest (3.5-3.8%) in Arbuscular Mycorrhizae Fungi biomarker, 16:1 omega 5c. High proportions of Gram-positive, relatively to Gram-negative biomarkers occurred essentially in arable soils, in this study, but also in Alpine grasslands, which main Gram-positive biomarkers were a15:0, and i15:0. Total biomass, PLEA Biomarker groups, and different balances between individual PLEA enabled the discrimination of samples originating from both different BG zones and land uses. (C) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2016	97	10.1016/j.apsoil.2015.09.001
Griffiths, RI; Thomson, BC; Plassart, P; Gweon, HS; Stone, D; Creamer, RE; Lemanceau, P; Bailey, MJ	Mapping and validating predictions of soil bacterial biodiversity using European and national scale datasets	APPLIED SOIL ECOLOGY	Recent research has highlighted strong correlations between soil edaphic parameters and bacterial biodiversity. Here we seek to explore these relationships across the European Union member states with respect to mapping bacterial biodiversity at the continental scale. As part of the EU FP7 EcoFINDERs project, bacterial communities from 76 soil samples taken across Europe were assessed from eleven countries encompassing Arctic to Southern Mediterranean climes, representing a diverse range of soil types and land uses (grassland, forest and arable land). We found predictable relationships between community biodiversity (ordination site scores) and land use factors as well as soil properties such as pH. Based on the modelled relationship between soil pH and bacterial biodiversity found for the surveyed soils, we were able to predict biodiversity in 1000 soils for which soil pH data had been collected as part of national scale monitoring. We then performed interpolative mapping utilising existing EU wide soil pH data to present the first map of bacterial biodiversity across the EU member states. The predictive accuracy of the map was assessed again using the national scale data, but this time contrasting the EU wide spatial predictions with point data on bacterial communities. Generally the maps were useful at predicting broad extremes of biodiversity reflective of low or high pH soils, though predictive accuracy was limited for Britain particularly for organic/acidic soil communities. Spatial accuracy could however be increased by utilising published maps of soil pH calculated using geostatistical approaches at both global and national scales. These findings will contribute to wider efforts to predict and understand the spatial distribution of soil biodiversity at global scales. Further work should focus on enhancing the predictive power of such maps, by harmonising global datasets on soil conditioning parameters, soil properties and biodiversity; and the continued efforts to advance the geostatistical modelling of specific components of soil biodiversity at local to global scales. (C) 2015 Published by Elsevier B.V.	2016	97	10.1016/j.apsoil.2015.06.018
Creamer, RE; Hannula, SE; Van Leeuwen, JP; Stone, D; Rutgers, M; Schmelz, RM; de Ruiter, PC; Hendriksen, NB; Bolger, T; Bouffaud, ML; Buee, M; Carvalho, F; Costa, D; Dirilgen, T; Francisco, R; Griffiths, BS; Griffiths, R; Martin, F; da Silva, PM; Mendes, S; Morais, PV; Pereira, C; Philippot, L; Plassart, P; Redecker, D; Rombke, J; Sousa, JP; Wouterse, M; Lemanceau, P	Ecological network analysis reveals the inter-connection between soil biodiversity and ecosystem function as affected by land use across Europe	APPLIED SOIL ECOLOGY	Soil organisms are considered drivers of soil ecosystem services (primary productivity, nutrient cycling, carbon cycling, water regulation) associated with sustainable agricultural production. Soil biodiversity was highlighted in the soil thematic strategy as a key component of soil quality. The lack of quantitative standardised data at a large scale has resulted in poor understanding of how soil biodiversity could be incorporated into legislation for the protection of soil quality. In 2011, the EcoFINDERS (FP7) project sampled 76 sites across 11 European countries, covering five biogeographical zones (Alpine, Atlantic, Boreal, Continental and Mediterranean) and three land-uses (arable, grass, forestry). Samples collected from across these sites ranged in soil properties; soil organic carbon (SOC), pH and texture. To assess the range in biodiversity and ecosystem function across the sites, fourteen biological methods were applied as proxy indicators for these functions. These methods measured the following: microbial diversity: DNA yields (molecular biomass), archaea, bacteria, total fungi and arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi; micro fauna diversity: nematode trophic groups; meso fauna diversity: enchytraeids and Collembola species; microbial function: nitrification, extracellular enzymes, multiple substrate induced respiration, community level physiological profiling and ammonia oxidiser/nitrification functional genes. Network analysis was used to identify the key connections between organisms under the different land use scenarios. Highest network density was found in forest soils and lowest density occurred in arable soils. Key taxomonic units (TUs) were identified in each land-use type and in relation to SOC and pH categorisations. Top-connected taxonomic units (i.e. displaying the most co-occurrence to other TUs) were identified for each land use type. In arable sites this was dominated by bacteria and fungi, while in grassland sites bacteria and fungi were most connected. In forest soils archaeal, enchytraeid and fungal TUs displayed the largest number of neighbours, reflecting the greatest connectivity. Multiple regression models were applied to assess the potential contribution of soil organisms to carbon cycling and storage and nutrient cycling of specifically nitrogen and phosphorus. Key drivers of carbon cycling were microbial biomass, basal respiration and fungal richness; these three measures have often been associated with carbon cycling in soils. Regression models of nutrient cycling were dependent on the model applied, showing variation in biological indicators. (C) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2016	97	10.1016/j.apsoil.2015.08.006
Donaldson, GP; Lee, SM; Mazmanian, SK	Gut biogeography of the bacterial microbiota	NATURE REVIEWS MICROBIOLOGY	Animals assemble and maintain a diverse but host-specific gut microbial community. In addition to characteristic microbial compositions along the longitudinal axis of the intestines, discrete bacterial communities form in microhabitats, such as the gut lumen, colonic mucus layers and colonic crypts. In this Review, we examine how the spatial distribution of symbiotic bacteria among physical niches in the gut affects the development and maintenance of a resilient microbial ecosystem. We consider novel hypotheses for how nutrient selection, immune activation and other mechanisms control the biogeography of bacteria in the gut, and we discuss the relevance of this spatial heterogeneity to health and disease.	2016	14	10.1038/nrmicro3552
Bolgovics, A; Acs, E; Varbiro, G; Gorgenyi, J; Borics, G	Species area relationship (SAR) for benthic diatoms: a study on aquatic islands	HYDROBIOLOGIA	The question of how species richness depends on the area is one of the most intensively studied subjects in biogeography. Many studies have reported this pattern for terrestrial and macroscopic taxa; however, microscopic and aquatic communities have received much less attention in the literature. The aim of our study was to reveal the relationship between the habitat size and richness of freshwater benthic diatom assemblages. We hypothesized that if the size of studied water bodies covers wide spatial scales, the species-area relationship (SAR) could be described by a sigmoid model. Benthic diatom assemblages were investigated in pools, ponds and lakes of various sizes (10(-2)-10(8) m(2)). We demonstrated that although the SAR in the log-log space can be described by a linear model, the linear breakpoint regression provides better fit to data. Using this technique a characteristic small island effect (SIE) could be distinguished. The SIE fell in the range of 10(-2)-10(4) m(2). We also demonstrated that species richness of the diatom guilds is remarkably different in the various size ranges of the water bodies. We also demonstrated that the slope of the SAR (z value) is similar to those values that have been reported for other microbial organisms.	2016	764	10.1007/s10750-015-2278-1
Santos, JBO; Silva, LHS; Branco, CWC; Huszar, VLM	The roles of environmental conditions and geographical distances on the species turnover of the whole phytoplankton and zooplankton communities and their subsets in tropical reservoirs	HYDROBIOLOGIA	Understanding the patterns of biological diversity between different regions (beta diversity) and how diversity is generated and maintained is a central goal in ecology. The relative roles of niche differentiation and geographical distances in shaping the phytoplankton and zooplankton structures are not yet fully determined, especially considering the subsets of species that share particular traits. We evaluated whether dissimilarity in phytoplankton and zooplankton assemblages depends on environmental distances and geographical distances on the whole communities and for subsets. We sampled eight hydroelectric reservoirs over a large scale (1500 km) in central Brazil, during three climatological periods. Phytoplankton composition was correlated with niche differentiation; that is, environmental similarity would account for assemblage similarity, due to the high dispersal abilities and low turnover rates of these organisms. For zooplankton, geographical distances were more important, which resulted in a stronger spatial structure with a greater dispersal limitation. For phytoplankton, the Morphologically Based Functional Group formed by diatoms, and for zooplankton, the three major taxonomic groups appeared as spatially structured. Therefore, phytoplankton composition was mostly correlated to niche differentiation and zooplankton to geographical distances; the communities deconstructed into subsets of species with similar traits refined the responses of the community structures.	2016	764	10.1007/s10750-015-2296-z
Lee, MD; Walworth, NG; Sylvan, JB; Edwards, KJ; Orcutt, BN	Microbial Communities on Seafloor Basalts at Dorado Outcrop Reflect Level of Alteration and Highlight Global Lithic Clades	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Areas of exposed basalt along mid-ocean ridges and at seafloor outcrops serve as conduits of fluid flux into and out of a subsurface ocean, and microbe-mineral interactions can influence alteration reactions at the rock-water interface. Located on the eastern flank of the East Pacific Rise, Dorado Outcrop is a site of low temperature (< 20 degrees C) hydrothermal venting and represents a new end-member in the current survey of seafloor basalt biomes. Consistent with prior studies, a survey of 16S rRNA gene sequence diversity using universal primers targeting the V4 hypervariable region revealed much greater richness and diversity on the seafloor rocks than in surrounding seawater. Overall, Gamma-, Alpha-, and Deltaproteobacteria, and Thaumarchaeota dominated the sequenced communities, together making up over half of the observed diversity, though bacterial sequences were more abundant than archaeal in all samples. The most abundant bacterial reads were closely related to the obligate chemolithoautotrophic, sulfur-oxidizing Thioprofundum lifl-lotrophicum, suggesting carbon and sulfur cycling as dominant metabolic pathways in this system. Representatives of Thaumarchaeota were detected in relatively high abundance on the basalts in comparison to bottom water, possibly indicating ammonia oxidation. In comparison to other sequence datasets from globally distributed seafloor basalts, this study reveals many overlapping and cosmopolitan phylogenetic groups and also suggests that substrate age correlates with community structure.	2015	6	10.3389/fmicb.2015.01470
Navarrete, AA; Venturini, AM; Meyer, KM; Klein, AM; Tiedje, JM; Bohannan, BJM; Nusslein, K; Tsai, SM; Rodrigues, JLM	Differential Response of Acidobacteria Subgroups to Forest-to-Pasture Conversion and Their Biogeographic Patterns in the Western Brazilian Amazon	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Members of the phylum Acidobacteria are among the most abundant soil bacteria on Earth, but little is known about their response to environmental changes. We asked how the relative abundance and biogeographic patterning of this phylum and its subgroups responded to forest-to-pasture conversion in soils of the western Brazilian Amazon. Pyrosequencing of 16S rRNA genes was employed to assess the abundance and composition of the Acidobacteria community across 54 soil samples taken using a spatially nested sampling scheme at the landscape level. Numerically, Acidobacteria represented 20% of the total bacterial community in forest soils and 11% in pasture soils. Overall, 15 different Acidobacteria subgroups of the current 26 subgroups were detected, with Acidobacteria subgroups 1, 3, 5, and 6 accounting together for 87% of the total Acidobacteria community in forest soils and 75% in pasture soils. Concomitant with changes in soil chemistry after forest-to-pasture conversion particularly an increase in properties linked to soil acidity and nutrient availability we observed an increase in the relative abundances of Acidobacteria subgroups 4, 10, 17, and 18, and a decrease in the relative abundances of other Acidobacteria subgroups in pasture relative to forest soils. The composition of the total Acidobacteria community as well as the most abundant Acidobacteria subgroups (1, 3, 5, and 6) was significantly more similar in composition across space in pasture soils than in forest soils. These results suggest that preponderant responses of Acidobacteria subgroups, especially subgroups 1, 3, 4, 5, and 6, to forest-to-pasture conversion effects in soils could be used to define management-indicators of agricultural practices in the Amazon Basin. These acidobacterial responses are at least in part through alterations on acidity- and nutrient-related properties of the Amazon soils.	2015	6	10.3389/fmicb.2015.01443
Luter, HM; Widder, S; Botte, ES; Wahab, MA; Whalan, S; Moitinho-Silva, L; Thomas, T; Webster, NS	Biogeographic variation in the microbiome of the ecologically important sponge, Carteriospongia foliascens	PEERJ	Sponges are well known for hosting dense and diverse microbial communities, but how these associations vary with biogeography and environment is less clear. Here we compared the microbiome of an ecologically important sponge species, Carteriospongia foliascens, over a large geographic area and identified environmental factors likely responsible for driving microbial community differences between inshore and offshore locations using co-occurrence networks (NWs). The microbiome of C. foliascens exhibited exceptionally high microbial richness, with more than 9,000 OTUs identified at 97% sequence similarity. A large biogeographic signal was evident at the OTU level despite similar phyla level diversity being observed across all geographic locations. The C. foliascens bacterial community was primarily comprised of Gammaproteobacteria (34. 2% +/- 3. 4%) and Cyanobacteria (32. 2% +/- 3. 5%), with lower abundances of Alphaproteobacteria, Bacteroidetes, unidentified Proteobacteria, Actinobacteria, Acidobacteria and Deltaproteobacteria. Co-occurrence NWs revealed a consistent increase in the proportion of Cyanobacteria over Bacteroidetes between turbid inshore and oligotrophic offshore locations, suggesting that the specialist microbiome of C. foliascens is driven by environmental factors.	2015	3	10.7717/peerj.1435
Georgieva, MN; Wiklund, H; Bell, JB; Eilertsen, MH; Mills, RA; Little, CTS; Glover, AG	A chemosynthetic weed: the tubeworm Sclerolinum contortum is a bipolar, cosmopolitan species	BMC EVOLUTIONARY BIOLOGY	Background: Sclerolinum (Annelida: Siboglinidae) is a genus of small, wiry deep-sea tubeworms that depend on an endosymbiosis with chemosynthetic bacteria for their nutrition, notable for their ability to colonise a multitude of reducing environments. Since the early 2000s, a Sclerolinum population has been known to inhabit sediment-hosted hydrothermal vents within the Bransfield Strait, Southern Ocean, and whilst remaining undescribed, it has been suggested to play an important ecological role in this ecosystem. Here, we show that the Southern Ocean Sclerolinum population is not a new species, but more remarkably in fact belongs to the species S. contortum, first described from an Arctic mud volcano located nearly 16,000 km away. Results: Our new data coupled with existing genetic studies extend the range of this species across both polar oceans and the Gulf of Mexico. Our analyses show that the populations of this species are structured on a regional scale, with greater genetic differentiation occurring between rather than within populations. Further details of the external morphology and tube structure of S. contortum are revealed through confocal and SEM imaging, and the ecology of this worm is discussed. Conclusions: These results shed further insight into the plasticity and adaptability of this siboglinid group to a range of reducing conditions, and into the levels of gene flow that occur between populations of the same species over a global extent.	2015	15	10.1186/s12862-015-0559-y
Hugerth, LW; Larsson, J; Alneberg, J; Lindh, MV; Legrand, C; Pinhassi, J; Andersson, AF	Metagenome-assembled genomes uncover a global brackish microbiome	GENOME BIOLOGY	Background: Microbes are main drivers of biogeochemical cycles in oceans and lakes. Although the genome is a foundation for understanding the metabolism, ecology and evolution of an organism, few bacterioplankton genomes have been sequenced, partly due to difficulties in cultivating them. Results: We use automatic binning to reconstruct a large number of bacterioplankton genomes from a metagenomic time-series from the Baltic Sea, one of worlds largest brackish water bodies. These genomes represent novel species within typical freshwater and marine clades, including clades not previously sequenced. The genomes seasonal dynamics follow phylogenetic patterns, but with fine-grained lineage-specific variations, reflected in gene-content. Signs of streamlining are evident in most genomes, and estimated genome sizes correlate with abundance variation across filter size fractions. Comparing the genomes with globally distributed metagenomes reveals significant fragment recruitment at high sequence identity from brackish waters in North America, but little from lakes or oceans. This suggests the existence of a global brackish metacommunity whose populations diverged from freshwater and marine relatives over 100,000 years ago, long before the Baltic Sea was formed (8000 years ago). This markedly contrasts to most Baltic Sea multicellular organisms, which are locally adapted populations of freshwater or marine counterparts. Conclusions: We describe the gene content, temporal dynamics and biogeography of a large set of new bacterioplankton genomes assembled from metagenomes. We propose that brackish environments exert such strong selection that lineages adapted to them flourish globally with limited influence from surrounding aquatic communities.	2015	16	10.1186/s13059-015-0834-7
Miletto, M; Lindow, SE	Relative and contextual contribution of different sources to the composition and abundance of indoor air bacteria in residences	MICROBIOME	Background: The study of the microbial communities in the built environment is of critical importance as humans spend the majority of their time indoors. While the microorganisms in living spaces, especially those in the air, can impact health and well-being, little is known of their identity and the processes that determine their assembly. We investigated the source-sink relationships of airborne bacteria in 29 homes in the San Francisco Bay Area. Samples taken in the sites expected to be source habitats for indoor air microbes were analyzed by 16S rRNA-based pyrosequencing and quantitative PCR. The community composition was related to the characteristics of the household collected at the time of sampling, including the number of residents and pets, activity levels, frequency of cooking and vacuum cleaning, extent of natural ventilation, and abundance and type of vegetation surrounding the building. Results: Indoor air harbored a diverse bacterial community dominated by Diaphorobacter sp., Propionibacterium sp., Sphingomonas sp., and Alicyclobacillus sp. Source-sink analysis suggested that outdoor air was the primary source of indoor air microbes in most homes. Bacterial phylogenetic diversity and relative abundance in indoor air did not differ statistically from that in outdoor air. Moreover, the abundance of bacteria in outdoor air was positively correlated with that in indoor air, as would be expected if outdoor air was the main contributor to the bacterial community in indoor bioaerosols. The number of residents, presence of pets, and local tap water also influenced the diversity and size of indoor air microbes. The bacterial load in air increased with the number of residents, activity, and frequency of natural ventilation, and the proportion of bacteria putatively derived from skin increased with the number of residents. Vacuum cleaning increased the signature of pet-and floor-derived bacteria in indoor air, while the frequency of natural ventilation decreased the relative abundance of tap water-derived microorganisms in air. Conclusions: Indoor air in residences harbors a diverse bacterial community originating from both outdoor and indoor sources and is strongly influenced by household characteristics.	2015	3	10.1186/s40168-015-0128-z
Savio, D; Sinclair, L; Ijaz, UZ; Parajka, J; Reischer, GH; Stadler, P; Blaschke, AP; Bloschl, G; Mach, RL; Kirschner, AKT; Farnleitner, AH; Eiler, A	Bacterial diversity along a 2600 km river continuum	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	The bacterioplankton diversity in large rivers has thus far been under-sampled despite the importance of streams and rivers as components of continental landscapes. Here, we present a comprehensive dataset detailing the bacterioplankton diversity along the midstream of the Danube River and its tributaries. Using 16S rRNA-gene amplicon sequencing, our analysis revealed that bacterial richness and evenness gradually declined downriver in both the free-living and particle-associated bacterial communities. These shifts were also supported by beta diversity analysis, where the effects of tributaries were negligible in regards to the overall variation. In addition, the river was largely dominated by bacteria that are commonly observed in freshwaters. Dominated by the acI lineage, the freshwater SAR11 (LD12) and the Polynucleobacter group, typical freshwater taxa increased in proportion downriver and were accompanied by a decrease in soil and groundwater-affiliated bacteria. Based on views of the meta-community and River Continuum Concept, we interpret the observed taxonomic patterns and accompanying changes in alpha and beta diversity with the intention of laying the foundation for a unified concept for river bacterioplankton diversity.	2015	17	10.1111/1462-2920.12886
Wang, XB; Van Nostrand, JD; Deng, Y; Lu, XT; Wang, C; Zhou, JZ; Han, XG	Scale-dependent effects of climate and geographic distance on bacterial diversity patterns across northern Chinas grasslands	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Patterns of variation in plant and animal diversity along precipitation gradients have been extensively studied, but much less is known about how and to what extent precipitation affects the biogeographic distribution of microbial diversity in arid areas across large spatial scales. Here we collected soils from 54 sites along a 3700 km transect covering a wide range of grassland ecosystems with distinct aridity gradients. We quantified the bacterial community diversity and the effects of climate, edaphic parameter and geographic distance on the bacterial community structure using high-throughput 16S rRNA gene sequencing. Of the 35 phyla detected, 6 were dominant: Actinobacteria, Acidobacteria, Alphaproteobacteria, Deltaproteobacteria, Bacteroidetes and Planctomycetes. Aridity was a major factor influencing bacterial diversity, community composition and taxon abundance. Although the pattern of bacterial species richness is markedly different from that of plant species richness, most soil bacteria were endemic to particular bioregions like macro-organisms. Community similarity significantly declined with environmental distance and geographic distance (r = -0.579 and -0.773, respectively). Geographic distance (historical contingencies) contributed more to bacterial community variation (36.02%) than combined environmental factors (24.06%). Overall, our results showed that geographic distance and climatic factors concurrently govern bacterial biogeographic patterns in arid and semi-arid grassland.	2015	91	10.1093/femsec/fiv133
Logares, R; Mangot, JF; Massana, R	Rarity in aquatic microbes: placing protists on the map	RESEARCH IN MICROBIOLOGY	Most microbial richness at any given time tends to be represented by low-abundance (rare) taxa, which are collectively referred to as the rare biosphere . Here we review works on the rare biosphere using high-throughput sequencing (HTS), with a particular focus on unicellular eukaryotes or protists. Evidence thus far indicates that the rare biosphere encompasses dormant as well as metabolically active microbes that could potentially play key roles in ecosystem functioning. Rare microbes appear to have biogeography, and sometimes the observed patterns can be similar to what is observed among abundant taxa, suggesting similar community-structuring mechanisms. There is limited evidence indicating that the rare biosphere contains taxa that are phylogenetically distantly related to abundant counterparts; therefore, the rare biosphere may act as a reservoir of deep-branching phylogenetic diversity. The potential role of the rare biosphere as a bank of redundant functions that can help to maintain continuous ecosystem function following oscillations in taxonomic abundances is hypothesized as its main ecological role. Future studies focusing on rare microbes are crucial for advancing our knowledge of microbial ecology and evolution and unveiling their links with ecosystem function. (C) 2015 Institut Pasteur. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.	2015	166	10.1016/j.resmic.2015.09.009
Ruiz-Gonzalez, C; Nino-Garcia, JP; Lapierre, JF; del Giorgio, PA	The quality of organic matter shapes the functional biogeography of bacterioplankton across boreal freshwater ecosystems	GLOBAL ECOLOGY AND BIOGEOGRAPHY	Aim The need to go beyond taxonomy to understand patterns in microbial function has led to an increased use of trait-based approaches, yet we know little about how microbial functional traits vary across large-scale environmental gradients in natural ecosystems. Here, we apply a trait-based approach to explore the large-scale variability in the trait structure underlying the processing of dissolved organic matter (DOM) by boreal bacterioplankton communities, as well as its regulation and links to taxonomic composition. Location Samples were collected from 296 rivers and lakes across five regions in northern Quebec (Canada), which span large gradients in environmental, climatic and geographical properties typical of the boreal zone. Methods We used the metabolic profiles obtained with Biolog EcoPlates as an imprint of the trait structure underlying bacterial processing of DOM, and Illumina sequencing of the 16SrRNA gene to characterize the taxonomic composition of these bacterial assemblages. The resulting spatial patterns were compared with an array of climatic, landscape and limnological properties varying at the landscape scale. Results Despite a clear regional segregation of the sampled sites based on environmental variables, the trait structure of boreal bacteria did not show any regional or ecosystem-specific patterns, but rather was linked to a gradient of quality of DOM. Community trait configurations diverged progressively with decreasing terrestrial influence, probably due to local processes that transform and diversify the available pool of DOM. This DOM quality gradient did not explain the taxonomic biogeography of these communities, which was controlled by a different set of environmental factors. Main conclusions The functional biogeography of boreal bacterioplankton is driven by the nature of the DOM pool, and particularly by the influence of terrestrial DOM. The lack of coherence between functional and taxonomic biogeographies implies that the environmental controls of freshwater bacterial performance cannot be directly inferred from spatial patterns in taxonomic composition.	2015	24	10.1111/geb.12356
Cerqueira, T; Pinho, D; Egas, C; Froufe, H; Altermark, B; Candeias, C; Santos, RS; Bettencourt, R	Microbial diversity in deep-sea sediments from the Menez Gwen hydrothermal vent system of the Mid-Atlantic Ridge	MARINE GENOMICS	Deep-sea hydrothermal sediments are known to support remarkably diverse microbial consortia. Culture-independent sequence-based technologies have extensively been used to disclose the associated microbial diversity as most of the microorganisms inhabiting these ecosystems remain uncultured. Here we provide the first description of the microbial community diversity found on sediments from Menez Gwen vent system. We compared hydrothermally influenced sediments, retrieved from an active vent chimney at 812 m depth, with non-hydrothermally influenced sediments, from a 1400 m depth bathyal plain. Considering the enriched methane and sulfur composition of Menez Gwen vent fluids, and the sediment physicochemical properties in each sampled area, we hypothesized that the site-associated microbes would be different. To address this question, taxonomic profiles of bacterial, archaeal and micro-eukaiyotic representatives were studied by rRNA gene tag pyrosequencing. Communities were shown to be significantly different and segregated by sediment geographical area. Specific mesophilic, thermophilic and hyperthermophilic archaeal (e.g., Archaeoglobus, ANME-1) and bacterial (e.g., Caldithrix, Thermodesulfobacteria) taxa were highly abundant near the vent chimney. In contrast, bathyal-associated members affiliated to more ubiquitous phylogroups from deep-ocean sediments (e.g., Thaumarchaeota MGI, Gamma- and Alphaproteobacteria). This study provides a broader picture of the biological diversity and microbial biogeography, and represents a preliminary approach to the microbial ecology associated with the deep-sea sediments from the Menez Gwen hydrothermal vent field. (c) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2015	24	10.1016/j.margen.2015.09.001
Liu, Q; Zhou, YG; Xin, YH	High diversity and distinctive community structure of bacteria on glaciers in China revealed by 454 pyrosequencing	SYSTEMATIC AND APPLIED MICROBIOLOGY	The bacterial diversity, community structure and preliminary microbial biogeographic pattern were assessed on glacier surfaces, including three northern glaciers (cold glaciers) and three southern glaciers (temperate glaciers) in China that experienced distinct climatic conditions. Pyrosequencing revealed that bacterial diversities were surprisingly high. With respect to operational taxonomic units (OTUs), Proteobacteria was the most dominant phylum on the glacier surfaces, especially Betaproteobacteria. Significant differences of the bacterial communities were observed between northern and southern glacier surfaces. The rare and abundant populations showed similar clustering patterns to the whole community. The analysis of the culturable bacterial compositions from four glaciers supported this conclusion. Redundancy analysis (RDA) and partial Mantel tests indicated that annual mean temperature, as well as geographical distance, was significantly correlated with the bacterial communities on the glaciers. It was inferred that bacterial communities on northern and southern glacier surfaces experienced different climate, water and nutrient patterns, and consequently evolved different lifestyles. (C) 2015 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.	2015	38	10.1016/j.syapm.2015.09.005
Gibbons, SM; Gilbert, JA	Microbial diversity - exploration of natural ecosystems and microbiomes	CURRENT OPINION IN GENETICS & DEVELOPMENT	Microorganisms are the pillars of life on Earth. Over billions of years, they have evolved into every conceivable niche on the planet. Microbes reshaped the oceans and atmosphere and gave rise to conditions conducive to multicellular organisms. Only in the past decade have we started to peer deeply into the microbial cosmos, and what we have found is amazing. Microbial ecosystems behave, in many ways, like large-scale ecosystems, although there are important exceptions. We review recent advances in our understanding of how microbial diversity is distributed across environments, how microbes influence the ecosystems in which they live, and how these nano-machines might be harnessed to advance our understanding of the natural world.	2015	35	10.1016/j.gde.2015.10.003
Ross, AA; Neufeld, JD	Microbial biogeography of a university campus	MICROBIOME	Background: Microorganisms are distributed on surfaces within homes, workplaces, and schools, with the potential to impact human health and disease. University campuses represent a unique opportunity to explore the distribution of microorganisms within built environments because of high human population densities, throughput, and variable building usage. For example, the main campus of the University of Waterloo spans four square kilometres, hosts over 40,000 individuals daily, and is comprised of a variety of buildings, including lecture halls, gyms, restaurants, residences, and a daycare. Results: Representative left and right entrance door handles from each of the 65 buildings at the University of Waterloo were swabbed at three time points during an academic term in order to determine if microbial community assemblages coincided with building usage and whether these communities are stable temporally. Across all door handles, the dominant phyla were Proteobacteria, Firmicutes, Actinobacteria, and Bacteroidetes, which comprised 89.0 % of all reads. A total of 713 genera were observed, 16 of which constituted a minimum of 1 % of the 2,458,094 classified and rarefied reads. Archaea were found in low abundance (similar to 0.03 %) but were present on 42.8 % of the door handles on 96 % of buildings across all time points, indicating that they are ubiquitous at very low levels on door handle surfaces. Although inter- handle variability was high, several individual building entrances harbored distinct microbial communities that were consistent over time. The presence of visible environmental debris on a subset of handles was associated with distinct microbial communities (beta diversity), increased richness (alpha diversity), and higher biomass (adenosine 5-triphosphate; ATP). Conclusions: This study demonstrates highly variable microbial communities associated with frequently contacted door handles on a university campus. Nonetheless, the data also revealed several building-specific and temporally stable bacterial and archaeal community patterns, with a potential impact of accumulated debris, a possible result of low human throughput, on detected microbial communities.	2015	3	10.1186/s40168-015-0135-0
Amaral-Zettler, LA; Zettler, ER; Slikas, B; Boyd, GD; Melvin, DW; Morrall, CE; Proskurowski, G; Mincer, TJ	The biogeography of the Plastisphere: implications for policy	FRONTIERS IN ECOLOGY AND THE ENVIRONMENT	Microplastics (particles less than 5 mm) numerically dominate marine debris and occur from coastal waters to mid-ocean gyres, where surface circulation concentrates them. Given the prevalence of plastic marine debris (PMD) and the rise in plastic production, the impacts of plastic on marine ecosystems will likely increase. Microscopic life (the Plastisphere) thrives on these tiny floating islands of debris and can be transported long distances. Using next-generation DNA sequencing, we characterized bacterial communities from water and plastic samples from the North Pacific and North Atlantic subtropical gyres to determine whether the composition of different Plastisphere communities reflects their biogeographic origins. We found that these communities differed between ocean basins and to a lesser extent between polymer types and displayed latitudinal gradients in species richness. Our research reveals some of the impacts of microplastics on marine biodiversity, demonstrates that the effects and fate of PMD may vary considerably in different parts of the global ocean, and suggests that PMD mitigation will require regional management efforts.	2015	13	10.1890/150017
Marchetti, A; Catlett, D; Hopkinson, BM; Ellis, K; Cassar, N	Marine diatom proteorhodopsins and their potential role in coping with low iron availability	ISME JOURNAL	Proteorhodopsins (PR) are retinal-binding membrane proteins that function as light-driven proton pumps to generate energy for metabolism and growth. Recently PR-like genes have been identified in some marine eukaryotic protists, including diatoms, dinoflagellates, haptophytes and cryptophytes. These rhodopsins are homologous to green-light-absorbing, ATP-generating PRs present within bacteria. Here we show that in the oceanic diatom Pseudo-nitzschia granii, PR-like gene and protein expressions increase appreciably under iron limitation. In a survey of available transcriptomes, PR-like genes in diatoms are generally found in isolates from marine habitats where seasonal to chronic growth limitation by the micronutrient iron is prevalent, yet similar biogeographical patterns are not apparent in other phytoplankton taxa. We propose that rhodopsin-based phototrophy could account for a proportion of energy synthesis in marine eukaryotic photoautotrophs, especially when photosynthesis is compromised by low iron availability. This alternative ATP-generating pathway could have significant effects on plankton community structure and global ocean carbon cycling.	2015	9	10.1038/ismej.2015.74
Burns, KN; Kluepfel, DA; Strauss, SL; Bokulich, NA; Cantu, D; Steenwerth, KL	Vineyard soil bacterial diversity and composition revealed by 16S rRNA genes: Differentiation by geographic features	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	Here, we examine soil-borne microbial biogeography as a function of the features that define an American Viticultural Area (AVA), a geographically delimited American wine grape-growing region, defined for its distinguishing features of climate, geology, soils, physical features (topography and water), and elevation. In doing so, we lay a foundation upon which to link the terroir of wine back to the soilborne microbial communities. The objective of this study is to elucidate the hierarchy of drivers of soil bacterial community structure in wine grape vineyards in Napa Valley, California. We measured differences in the soil bacterial and archaeal community composition and diversity by sequencing the fourth variable region of the small subunit ribosomal RNA gene (165 V4 rDNA). Soil bacterial communities were structured with respect to soil properties and AVA, demonstrating the complexity of soil microbial biogeography at the landscape scale and within the single land-use type. Location and edaphic variables that distinguish AVAs were the strongest explanatory factors for soil microbial community structure. Notably, the relationship with TC and TN of the <53 mu m and 53-250 mu m soil fractions offers support for the role of bacterial community structure rather than individual taxa on fine soil organic matter content. We reason that AVA, climate, and topography each affect soil microbial communities through their suite of impacts on soil properties. The identification of distinctive soil microbial communities associated with a given AVA lends support to the idea that soil microbial communities form a key in linking wine terroir back to the biotic components of the soil environment, suggesting that the relationship between soil microbial communities and wine terroir should be examined further. (C) Published by Elsevier Ltd.	2015	91	10.1016/j.soilbio.2015.09.002
Hashemi-Aghdam, SS; Oshaghi, MA	A Checklist of Iranian Cockroaches (Blattodea) with Description of Polyphaga sp as a New Species in Iran	JOURNAL OF ARTHROPOD-BORNE DISEASES	Background: Cockroaches are of vital importance medically and hygienically. They are able to contaminate foods and act as vectors of pathogenic agents such as bacteria, protozoa, and parasites to human environment either mechanically or through their digestive system. Cockroaches belong to the phylum Arthropoda, class Insecta, and order Blattodea or Blattaria. To date, over 4,500 cockroach species have been reported from different parts of the world. We overviewed the documents involved Iranian cockroaches to up-to-date checklist of cockroach species distributed in various provinces of Iran. Methods: An extensive literature review was performed in 2013 on Iranian handbooks, reports and published data available since 1986 to obtain a comprehensive list of Iranian cockroaches. Furthermore, in an entomological survey in Tehran, cockroach specimens were collected and identified based on morphological and the DNA sequences of the mitochondrial cytochrome oxidase subunit II (COII) gene (mt-DNA COII) characteristics. Results: Morphological characterization revealed presence of an un-described species very similar to Polyphaga aegyptiaca, P. indica and somehow to Pycnoscelus surinamensis, however, supplementary molecular analysis revealed the species was associated with Polyphaga of Corydiidae (Polyphagidae). With regards to the report of the un-described species, the cockroach fauna of Iran includes three families, 14 genera, and 26 species. Conclusion: Some species has not been collected or reported recently and also many geographical regions of the country have not been studied yet, hence a systematic research is required to reveal the real cockroach list of the country. Geographical distributions, nomination changes, and synonyms of cockroach species are presented.	2015	9	
Yang, J; Li, XY; Huang, LQ; Jiang, HC	Actinobacterial Diversity in the Sediments of Five Cold Springs on the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	The actinobacterial diversity was investigated in the sediments of five cold springs in Wuli region on the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau using 16S rRNA gene phylogenetic analysis. The actinobacterial communities of the studied cold springs were diverse and the obtained actinobacterial operational taxonomic units were classified into 12 actinobacterial orders (e.g., Acidimicrobiales, Corynebacteriales, Gaiellales, Geodermatophilales, diangellales, Kineosporiales, Micromonosporales, Micrococcales, Nakarnurellales, Propionibacteriales, Pseudonocardiales, Streptornycetales) and unclassified Actinobacteria. The actinobacterial composition varied among the investigated cold springs and were significantly correlated (r = 0.748, P = 0.021) to environmental variables. The actinobacterial communities in the cold springs were more diverse than other cold habitats on the Tibetan Plateau, and their compositions showed unique geographical distribution characteristics. Statistical analyses showed that biogeographical isolation and unique environmental conditions might be major factors influencing actinobacterial distribution among the investigated cold springs.	2015	6	10.3389/fmicb.2015.01345
Zhu, GB; Wang, SY; Zhou, LL; Wang, Y; Zhao, SY; Xia, C; Wang, WD; Zhou, R; Wang, CX; Jetten, MSM; Hefting, MM; Yin, CQ; Qu, JH	Ubiquitous anaerobic ammonium oxidation in inland waters of China: an overlooked nitrous oxide mitigation process	SCIENTIFIC REPORTS	Denitrification has long been regarded as the only pathway for terrestrial nitrogen (N) loss to the atmosphere. Here we demonstrate that large-scale anaerobic ammonium oxidation (anammox), an overlooked N loss process alternative to denitrification which bypasses nitrous oxide (N2O), is ubiquitous in inland waters of China and contributes significantly to N loss. Anammox rates in aquatic systems show different levels (1.0-975.9 mu mol N m(-2) h(-1), n = 256) with hotspots occurring at oxic-anoxic interfaces and harboring distinct biogeochemical and biogeographical features. Extrapolation of these results to the China-national level shows that anammox could contribute about 2.0 Tg N yr(-1), which equals averagely 11.4% of the total N loss from Chinas inland waters. Our results indicate that a significant amount of the nitrogen lost from inland waters bypasses denitrification, which is important for constructing more accurate climate models and may significantly reduce potential N2O emission risk at a large scale.	2015	5	10.1038/srep17306
Seshadri, R; Reeve, WG; Ardley, JK; Tennessen, K; Woyke, T; Kyrpides, NC; Ivanova, NN	Discovery of Novel Plant Interaction Determinants from the Genomes of 163 Root Nodule Bacteria	SCIENTIFIC REPORTS	Root nodule bacteria (RNB) or rhizobia are a type of plant growth promoting bacteria, typified by their ability to fix nitrogen for their plant host, fixing nearly 65% of the nitrogen currently utilized in sustainable agricultural production of legume crops and pastures. In this study, we sequenced the genomes of 110 RNB from diverse hosts and biogeographical regions, and undertook a global exploration of all available RNB genera with the aim of identifying novel genetic determinants of symbiotic association and plant growth promotion. Specifically, we performed a subtractive comparative analysis with non-RNB genomes, employed relevant transcriptomic data, and leveraged phylogenetic distribution patterns and sequence signatures based on known precepts of symbiotic- and host-microbe interactions. A total of 184 protein families were delineated, including known factors for nodulation and nitrogen fixation, and candidates with previously unexplored functions, for which a role in host-interaction, -regulation, biocontrol, and more, could be posited. These analyses expand our knowledge of the RNB purview and provide novel targets for strain improvement in the ultimate quest to enhance plant productivity and agricultural sustainability.	2015	5	10.1038/srep16825
Paknia, O; Schierwater, B	Global Habitat Suitability and Ecological Niche Separation in the Phylum Placozoa	PLOS ONE	The enigmatic placozoans, which hold a key position in the metazoan Tree of Life, have attracted substantial attention in many areas of biological and biomedical research. While placozoans have become an emerging model system, their ecology and particularly biogeography remain widely unknown. In this study, we use modelling approaches to explore habitat preferences, and distribution pattern of the placozoans phylum. We provide hypotheses for discrete ecological niche separation between genetic placozoan lineages, which may also help to understand biogeography patterns in other small marine invertebrates. We, here, used maximum entropy modelling to predict placozoan distribution using 20 environmental grids of 9.2 km(2) resolution. In addition, we used recently developed metrics of niche overlap to compare habitat suitability models of three genetic clades. The predicted distributions range from 55 degrees N to 44 degrees S and are restricted to regions of intermediate to warm sea surface temperatures. High concentrations of salinity and low nutrient concentrations appear as secondary factors. Tests of niche equivalency reveal the largest differences between placozoan clades I and III. Interestingly, the genetically well-separated clades I and V appear to be ecologically very similar. Our habitat suitability models predict a wider latitudinal distribution for placozoans, than currently described, especially in the northern hemisphere. With respect to biogeography modelling, placozoans show patterns somewhere between higher metazoan taxa and marine microorganisms, with the first group usually showing complex biogeographies and the second usually showing no biogeography.	2015	10	10.1371/journal.pone.0140162
Dickson, RP; Erb-Downward, JR; Huffnagle, GB	Homeostasis and its disruption in the lung microbiome	AMERICAN JOURNAL OF PHYSIOLOGY-LUNG CELLULAR AND MOLECULAR PHYSIOLOGY	The disciplines of physiology and ecology are united by the shared centrality of the concept of homeostasis: the stability of a complex system via internal mechanisms of self-regulation, resilient to external perturbation. In the past decade, these fields of study have been bridged by the discovery of the lung microbiome. The respiratory tract, long considered sterile, is in fact a dynamic ecosystem of microbiota, intimately associated with the host inflammatory response, altered in disease states. If the microbiome is a newly discovered organ, ecology is the language we use to explain how it establishes, maintains, and loses homeostasis. In this essay, we review recent insights into the feedback mechanisms by which the lung microbiome and the host response are regulated in health and dysregulated in acute and chronic lung disease. We propose three explanatory models supported by recent studies: the adapted island model of lung biogeography, nutritional homeostasis at the host-microbiome interface, and interkingdom signaling and the community stress response.	2015	309	10.1152/ajplung.00279.2015
Snow, JT; Polyviou, D; Skipp, P; Chrismas, NAM; Hitchcock, A; Geider, R; Moore, CM; Bibby, TS	Quantifying Integrated Proteomic Responses to Iron Stress in the Globally Important Marine Diazotroph Trichodesmium	PLOS ONE	Trichodesmium is a biogeochemically important marine cyanobacterium, responsible for a significant proportion of the annual new nitrogen introduced into the global ocean. These non-heterocystous filamentous diazotrophs employ a potentially unique strategy of near-concurrent nitrogen fixation and oxygenic photosynthesis, potentially burdening Trichodesmium with a particularly high iron requirement due to the iron-binding proteins involved in these processes. Iron availability may therefore have a significant influence on the biogeography of Trichodesmium. Previous investigations of molecular responses to iron stress in this keystone marine microbe have largely been targeted. Here a holistic approach was taken using a label-free quantitative proteomics technique (MSE) to reveal a sophisticated multi-faceted proteomic response of Trichodesmium erythraeum IMS101 to iron stress. Increased abundances of proteins known to be involved in acclimation to iron stress and proteins known or predicted to be involved in iron uptake were observed, alongside decreases in the abundances of iron-binding proteins involved in photosynthesis and nitrogen fixation. Preferential loss of proteins with a high iron content contributed to overall reductions of 55-60% in estimated proteomic iron requirements. Changes in the abundances of iron-binding proteins also suggested the potential importance of alternate photosynthetic pathways as Trichodesmium reallocates the limiting resource under iron stress. Trichodesmium therefore displays a significant and integrated proteomic response to iron availability that likely contributes to the ecological success of this species in the ocean.	2015	10	10.1371/journal.pone.0142626
Docherty, KM; Borton, HM; Espinosa, N; Gebhardt, M; Gil-Loaiza, J; Gutknecht, JLM; Maes, PW; Mott, BM; Parnell, JJ; Purdy, G; Rodrigues, PAP; Stanish, LF; Walser, ON; Gallery, RE	Key Edaphic Properties Largely Explain Temporal and Geographic Variation in Soil Microbial Communities across Four Biomes	PLOS ONE	Soil microbial communities play a critical role in nutrient transformation and storage in all ecosystems. Quantifying the seasonal and long-term temporal extent of genetic and functional variation of soil microorganisms in response to biotic and abiotic changes within and across ecosystems will inform our understanding of the effect of climate change on these processes. We examined spatial and seasonal variation in microbial communities based on 16S rRNA gene sequencing and phospholipid fatty acid (PLFA) composition across four biomes: a tropical broadleaf forest (Hawaii), taiga (Alaska), semiarid grassland-shrubland (Utah), and a subtropical coniferous forest (Florida). In this study, we used a team-based instructional approach leveraging the iPlant Collaborative to examine publicly available National Ecological Observatory Network (NEON) 16S gene and PLFA measurements that quantify microbial diversity, composition, and growth. Both profiling techniques revealed that microbial communities grouped strongly by ecosystem and were predominately influenced by three edaphic factors: pH, soil water content, and cation exchange capacity. Temporal variability of microbial communities differed by profiling technique; 16S-based community measurements showed significant temporal variability only in the subtropical coniferous forest communities, specifically through changes within subgroups of Acidobacteria. Conversely, PLFA-based community measurements showed seasonal shifts in taiga and tropical broadleaf forest systems. These differences may be due to the premise that 16S-based measurements are predominantly influenced by large shifts in the abiotic soil environment, while PLFA-based analyses reflect the metabolically active fraction of the microbial community, which is more sensitive to local disturbances and biotic interactions.	2015	10	10.1371/journal.pone.0135352
Huszar, VLM; Nabout, JC; Appel, MO; Santos, JBO; Abe, DS; Silva, LHS	Environmental and not spatial processes (directional and non-directional) shape the phytoplankton composition and functional groups in a large subtropical river basin	JOURNAL OF PLANKTON RESEARCH	Despite wide knowledge of environment-community relationships in inland waters, the relative effects of niche conditions (environment) and dispersal (space) on microorganism communities remain controversial. In lotic waters, non-directional processes (i.e. overland dispersal) and the unidirectional connectivity among sites control species distributions along a gradient. We aimed to detect phytoplankton biogeographical patterns in a large subtropical river (Uruguay River, 1150 km, Brazil) and to isolate the contributions of the environment (limnology, climate and topography) and space in shaping community structure. Phytoplankton (total and functional groups) and abiotic variables were sampled from a hydroplane in motion. To detect biogeographical patterns, we used Mantels correlation test, and to evaluate the relative roles of environment and space, we used partial redundancy analysis with non-directional symmetrical and directional asymmetrical approaches. Similarity in phytoplankton composition decreased with distance, but only environment significantly explained this pattern. Space was not significant, considering non-directional and directional processes. Phytoplankton communities considering both individual species and their functional groups were more similar between closer sites, because niche conditions play the main role in shaping phytoplankton, not because dispersal is favored among nearby communities. The species-sorting model, based mostly on niche theory, was the main metacommunity mechanism for phytoplankton communities in this river basin.	2015	37	10.1093/plankt/fbv084
Livermore, JA; Jones, SE	Local-global overlap in diversity informs mechanisms of bacterial biogeography	ISME JOURNAL	Spatial variation in environmental conditions and barriers to organism movement are thought to be important factors for generating endemic species, thus enhancing global diversity. Recent microbial ecology research suggested that the entire diversity of bacteria in the global oceans could be recovered at a single site, thus inferring a lack of bacterial endemism. We argue this is not the case in the global ocean, but might be in other bacterial ecosystems with higher dispersal rates and lower global diversity, like the human gut. We quantified the degree to which local and global bacterial diversity overlap in a diverse set of ecosystems. Upon comparison of observed local-global diversity overlap with predictions from a neutral biogeography model, human-associated microbiomes (gut, skin, mouth) behaved much closer to neutral expectations whereas soil, lake and marine communities deviated strongly from the neutral expectations. This is likely a result of differences in dispersal rate among patches, global diversity of these systems, and local densities of bacterial cells. It appears that overlap of local and global bacterial diversity is surprisingly large (but likely not one-hundred percent), and most importantly this overlap appears to be predictable based upon traditional biogeographic parameters like community size, global diversity, inter-patch environmental heterogeneity and patch connectivity.	2015	9	10.1038/ismej.2015.51
Maurice, CF; Knowles, SCL; Ladau, J; Pollard, KS; Fenton, A; Pedersen, AB; Turnbaugh, PJ	Marked seasonal variation in the wild mouse gut microbiota	ISME JOURNAL	Recent studies have provided an unprecedented view of the microbial communities colonizing captive mice; yet the host and environmental factors that shape the rodent gut microbiota in their natural habitat remain largely unexplored. Here, we present results from a 2-year 16 S ribosomal RNA gene sequencing-based survey of wild wood mice (Apodemus sylvaticus) in two nearby woodlands. Similar to other mammals, wild mice were colonized by 10 bacterial phyla and dominated by the Firmicutes, Bacteroidetes and Proteobacteria. Within the Firmicutes, the Lactobacillus genus was most abundant. Putative bacterial pathogens were widespread and often abundant members of the wild mouse gut microbiota. Among a suite of extrinsic (environmental) and intrinsic (host-related) factors examined, seasonal changes dominated in driving qualitative and quantitative differences in the gut microbiota. In both years examined, we observed a strong seasonal shift in gut microbial community structure, potentially due to the transition from an insect-to a seed-based diet. This involved decreased levels of Lactobacillus, and increased levels of Alistipes (Bacteroidetes phylum) and Helicobacter. We also detected more subtle but statistically significant associations between the gut microbiota and biogeography, sex, reproductive status and co-colonization with enteric nematodes. These results suggest that environmental factors have a major role in shaping temporal variations in microbial community structure within natural populations.	2015	9	10.1038/ismej.2015.53
Cavicchioli, R	Microbial ecology of Antarctic aquatic systems	NATURE REVIEWS MICROBIOLOGY	The Earths biosphere is dominated by cold environments, and the cold biosphere is dominated by microorganisms. Microorganisms in cold Southern Ocean waters are recognized for having crucial roles in global biogeochernical cycles, including carbon sequestration, whereas microorganisms in other Antarctic aquatic biomes are not as well understood. In this Review, I consider what has been learned about Antarctic aquatic microbial ecology from omic studies. I assess the factors that shape the biogeography of Antarctic microorganisms, reflect on some of the unusual biogeochemicat cycles that they are associated with and discuss the important roles that viruses have in controlling ecosystem function.	2015	13	10.1038/nrmicro3549
Ivanova, EA; Kutovaya, OV; Tkhakakhova, AK; Chernov, TI; Pershina, EV; Markina, LG; Andronov, EE; Kogut, BM	The structure of microbial community in aggregates of a typical chernozem aggregates under contrasting variants of its agricultural use	EURASIAN SOIL SCIENCE	The taxonomic structure of microbiomes in aggregates of different sizes from typical chernozems was investigated using sequencing of the 16S rRNA gene. The aggregate fractions of < 0.25, 2-5, and > 7 mm obtained by sieving of the soil samples at natural moisture were used for analysis. The highest prokaryote biomass (bacteria, archaea) was determined in the fractions < 0.25 and aggregates 2-5 mm; the bacterial and archaeal biomass decreased in the following series: fallow > permanent black fallow > permanent winter wheat. The greatest number of fungi was recorded in the fraction < 0.25 mm from the soils of the permanent black fallow and in all the studied aggregate fractions in the variant with permanent wheat. The system of agricultural use affected more significantly the structure of the prokaryote community in the chernozem than the size of aggregate fractions did. The most diverse microbial community was recorded in the soil samples of the fallow; the statistically significant maximums of the Shannon diversity indices and indices of phylogenetic diversity (PD) were recorded in the fractions < 0.25 and 2-5 mm from the fallow soil. On the whole, the fine soil fractions (< 0.25 mm) were characterized by higher diversity indices in comparison with those of the coarser aggregate fractions.	2015	48	10.1134/S1064229315110083
Baath, E; Kritzberg, E	pH Tolerance in Freshwater Bacterioplankton: Trait Variation of the Community as Measured by Leucine Incorporation	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	pH is an important factor determining bacterial community composition in soil and water. We have directly determined the community tolerance (trait variation) to pH in communities from 22 lakes and streams ranging in pH from 4 to 9 using a growth-based method not relying on distinguishing between individual populations. The pH in the water samples was altered to up to 16 pH values, covering in situ pH +/- 2.5 U, and the tolerance was assessed by measuring bacterial growth (Leu incorporation) instantaneously after pH adjustment. The resulting unimodal response curves, reflecting community tolerance to pH, were well modeled with a double logistic equation (mean R-2 +/- 0.97). The optimal pH for growth (pH(opt)) among the bacterial communities was closely correlated with in situ pH, with a slope (0.89 +/- 0.099) close to unity. The pH interval, in which growth was >= 90% of that at pH(opt), was 1.1 to 3 pH units wide (mean 2.0 pH units). Tolerance response curves of communities originating from circum-neutral pH were symmetrical, whereas in high-pH (8.9) and especially in low-pH (<5.5) waters, asymmetric tolerance curves were found. In low-pH waters, decreasing pH was more detrimental for bacterial growth than increasing pH, with a tendency for the opposite for high-pH waters. A pH tolerance index, using the ratio of growth at only two pH values (pH 4 and 8), was closely related to pH(opt) (R-2 = 0.83), allowing for easy determination of pH tolerance during rapid changes in pH.	2015	81	10.1128/AEM.02236-15
Wang, YM; Liu, LM; Chen, HH; Yang, J	Spatiotemporal dynamics and determinants of planktonic bacterial and microeukaryotic communities in a Chinese subtropical river	APPLIED MICROBIOLOGY AND BIOTECHNOLOGY	The spatiotemporal distribution of microbial diversity, community composition, and their major drivers are fundamental issues in microbial ecology. In this study, the planktonic bacterial and microeukaryotic communities of the Jiulong River were investigated across both wet and dry seasons by using denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE). We found evidence of temporal change between wet and dry seasons and distinct spatial patterns of bacterial and microeukaryotic communities. Both bacterial and microeukaryotic communities were strongly correlated with temperature, NH4-N, PO4-P, and chlorophyll a, and these environmental factors were significant but incomplete predictors of microbial community composition. Local environmental factors combined with spatial and temporal factors strongly controlled both bacterial and microeukaryotic communities in complex ways, whereas the direct influence of spatial and temporal factors appeared to be relatively small. Path analysis revealed that the microeukaryotic community played key roles in shaping bacterial community composition, perhaps through grazing effects and multiple interactions. Both Betaproteobacteria and Actinobacteria were the most dominant and diverse taxa in bacterial communities, while the microeukaryotic communities were dominated by Ciliophora (zooplankton) and Chlorophyta (phytoplankton). Our results demonstrated that both bacterial and microeukaryotic communities along the Jiulong River displayed a distinct spatiotemporal pattern; however, microeukaryotic communities exhibited a stronger distance-decay relationship than bacterial communities and their spatial patterns were mostly driven by local environmental variables rather than season or spatial processes of the river. Therefore, we have provided baseline data to support further research on river microbial food webs and integrating different microbial groups into river models.	2015	99	10.1007/s00253-015-6773-0
Ruiz-Gonzalez, C; Nino-Garcia, JP; del Giorgio, PA	Terrestrial origin of bacterial communities in complex boreal freshwater networks	ECOLOGY LETTERS	Bacteria inhabiting boreal freshwaters are part of metacommunities where local assemblages are often linked by the flow of water in the landscape, yet the resulting spatial structure and the boundaries of the network metacommunity have never been explored. Here, we reconstruct the spatial structure of the bacterial metacommunity in a complex boreal aquatic network by determining the taxonomic composition of bacterial communities along the entire terrestrial/aquatic continuum, including soil and soilwaters, headwater streams, large rivers and lakes. We show that the network metacommunity has a directional spatial structure driven by a common terrestrial origin of aquatic communities, which are numerically dominated by taxa recruited from soils. Local community assembly is driven by variations along the hydrological continuum in the balance between mass effects and species sorting of terrestrial taxa, and seems further influenced by priority effects related to the spatial sequence of entry of soil bacteria into the network.	2015	18	10.1111/ele.12499
Iakovenko, NS; Smykla, J; Convey, P; Kasparova, E; Kozeretska, IA; Trokhymets, V; Dykyy, I; Plewka, M; Devetter, M; Duris, Z; Janko, K	Antarctic bdelloid rotifers: diversity, endemism and evolution	HYDROBIOLOGIA	Antarctica is an isolated continent whose conditions challenge the survival of living organisms. High levels of endemism are now known in many Antarctic organisms, including algae, tardigrades, nematodes and microarthropods. Bdelloid rotifers are a key, widespread and abundant group of Antarctic microscopic invertebrates. However, their diversity, regional distribution and endemism have received little attention until recently. We provide the first authoritative review on Antarctic Bdelloidea, based on published data and new collections. Our analysis reveals the extreme levels of bdelloid endemism in Antarctica. Sixty-six bdelloid morphospecies are now confirmed from the continent, and 83-91 putative species are identified using molecular approaches (depending on the delimitation method used). Twelve previously unknown species are described based on both morphology and molecular analyses. Molecular analyses indicate that only two putative species found in Antarctica proved to be truly cosmopolitan. The level of endemism based on the available data set (95%) is higher than that in any other continent, with many bdelloid species occurring only in maritime or continental Antarctica. These findings are consistent with the long-term presence of Bdelloidea in Antarctica, with their considerable isolation facilitating intraregional radiation, providing further evidence that does not support the microbial global ubiquity hypothesis that everything is everywhere..	2015	761	10.1007/s10750-015-2463-2
Di Giuseppe, G; Dini, F; Vallesi, A; Luporini, P	Genetic relationships in bipolar species of the protist ciliate, Euplotes	HYDROBIOLOGIA	Protists thrive in polar oceans, where they represent a major driving force for globally important biogeochemical cycles and a key food-web component. Their biogeography is frequently associated to bipolar patterns of distribution. Although conceptually well supported by apparently unrestricted migration rates, the experimental certification of these patterns copes with the protist paucity of morphological characters with taxonomic value and difficulties in applying conventional species concepts. We studied three marine species of the ciliate Euplotes, E. euryhalinus, E. nobilii, and E. petzi, for their bipolar distribution by comparing the SSU-rRNA gene sequences and mating interactions of Antarctic, Patagonian, and Arctic strains. Each species was analogously found not to carry significantly varied SSU-rRNA gene sequences, implying a common occurrence of trans-equatorial genetic mixing. However, mating analyses revealed significant inter-species differences. Scarce Antarctic x Arctic strain mating compatibility distinguished E. petzi from E. euryhalinus and E. nobilii, in which mating pairs between Antarctic and Arctic strains were successfully induced. Yet, E. nobilii was the only one of the two species to show cross-fertilizing and fertile mating pairs. Taking the biological concept of species as discriminatory, it was thus concluded that only E. nobilii warrants the definition of genuine bipolar species.	2015	761	10.1007/s10750-015-2274-5
Hestetun, JT; Fourt, M; Vacelet, J; Boury-Esnault, N; Rapp, HT	Cladorhizidae (Porifera, Demospongiae, Poecilosclerida) of the deep Atlantic collected during Ifremer cruises, with a biogeographic overview of the Atlantic species	JOURNAL OF THE MARINE BIOLOGICAL ASSOCIATION OF THE UNITED KINGDOM	The study presents Cladorhizidae collected during Ifremer cruises in the Atlantic Ocean from 1981 to 2004. Fifteen species are described from the genera Abyssocladia, Asbestopluma, Chondrocladia and Cladorhiza, with complete descriptions of five new species. While a couple of species were collected at 670-1010 m depth at the Rockall Bank, most species were collected at middle to lower bathyal and abyssal depths (similar to 2000-5000 m), ranging from the northern Atlantic to the Mid-Atlantic Ridge and the coast of Africa at Gabon-Congo. A biogeographic analysis of currently known Arctic, Atlantic and some Antarctic species shows that the majority of included cladorhizids are described from the north-east Atlantic and Arctic Oceans while a lower number of species are known from other parts of the Atlantic Ocean. Large regions are poorly investigated, and previously undescribed species can be expected when sampling in these areas. A regional mostly endemic cladorhizid fauna is predicted for shelf and upper slope areas. Species in the lower bathyal and abyssal seem on the other hand to have a wider geographical distribution.	2015	95	10.1017/S0025315413001100
Zwirglmaier, K; Keiz, K; Engel, M; Geist, J; Raeder, U	Seasonal and spatial patterns of microbial diversity along a trophic gradient in the interconnected lakes of the Osterseen Lake District, Bavaria	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	The Osterseen Lake District in Bavaria consists of 19 small interconnected lakes that exhibit a pronounced trophic gradient from eutrophic to oligotrophic. It therefore presents a unique model system to address ecological questions regarding niche adaptation and Baas Beckings long standing hypothesis of everything is everywhere, but the environment selects. Here, we present the first assessment of the microbial diversity in these lakes. We sampled the lakes in August and December and used 454 pyrosequencing of 16S rRNA amplicons to analyze the microbial diversity. The diversity patterns between lakes and seasons were compared and the bacterial community composition was correlated with key chemical and physical parameters. Distinct patterns of bacterial diversity only emerged at the level of individual OTUs (operational taxonomic units), but not at the level of the major bacterial phyla. This emphasizes the high functional and physiological diversity among bacterial species within a phylum and calls for analysis of biodiversity at the level of OTUs in order to understand fine scale biogeography. We were able to identify a number of cosmopolitan OTUs as well as specialist OTUs that were restricted to certain lakes or seasons, suggesting adaptation to specific ecological niches.	2015	6	10.3389/fmicb.2015.01168
Hunt, DE; Ward, CS	A network-based approach to disturbance transmission through microbial interactions	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Microbes numerically dominate aquatic ecosystems and play key roles in the biogeochemistry and the health of these environments. Due to their short generations times and high diversity, microbial communities are among the first responders to environmental changes, including natural and anthropogenic disturbances such as storms, pollutant releases, and upwelling. These disturbances affect members of the microbial communities both directly and indirectly through interactions with impacted community members. Thus, interactions can influence disturbance propagation through the microbial community by either expanding the range of organisms affected or buffering the influence of disturbance. For example, interactions may expand the number of disturbance-affected taxa by favoring a competitor or buffer the impacts of disturbance when a potentially disturbance-responsive clades growth is limited by an essential microbial partner. Here, we discuss the potential to use inferred ecological association networks to examine how disturbances propagate through microbial communities focusing on a case study of a coastal communitys response to a storm. This approach will offer greater insight into how disturbances can produce community-wide impacts on aquatic environments following transient changes in environmental parameters.	2015	6	10.3389/fmicb.2015.01182
Jeffries, TC; Ostrowski, M; Williams, RB; Xie, C; Jensen, RM; Grzymski, JJ; Senstius, SJ; Givskov, M; Hoeke, R; Philip, GK; Neches, RY; Drautz-Moses, DI; Chenard, C; Paulsen, IT; Lauro, FM	Spatially extensive microbial biogeography of the Indian Ocean provides insights into the unique community structure of a pristine coral atoll	SCIENTIFIC REPORTS	Microorganisms act both as drivers and indicators of perturbations in the marine environment. In an effort to establish baselines to predict the response of marine habitats to environmental change, here we report a broad survey of microbial diversity across the Indian Ocean, including the first microbial samples collected in the pristine lagoon of Salomon Islands, Chagos Archipelago. This was the first largescale ecogenomic survey aboard a private yacht employing a citizen oceanography approach and tools and protocols easily adapted to ocean going sailboats. Our data highlighted biogeographic patterns in microbial community composition across the Indian Ocean. Samples from within the Salomon Islands lagoon contained a community which was different even from adjacent samples despite constant water exchange, driven by the dominance of the photosynthetic cyanobacterium Synechococcus. In the lagoon, Synechococcus was also responsible for driving shifts in the metatranscriptional profiles. Enrichment of transcripts related to photosynthesis and nutrient cycling indicated bottom-up controls of community structure. However a five-fold increase in viral transcripts within the lagoon during the day, suggested a concomitant top-down control by bacteriophages. Indeed, genome recruitment against Synechococcus reference genomes suggested a role of viruses in providing the ecological filter for determining the beta-diversity patterns in this system.	2015	5	10.1038/srep15383
Murray, KA; Preston, N; Allen, T; Zambrana-Torrelio, C; Hosseini, PR; Daszak, P	Global biogeography of human infectious diseases	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	The distributions of most infectious agents causing disease in humans are poorly resolved or unknown. However, poorly known and unknown agents contribute to the global burden of disease and will underlie many future disease risks. Existing patterns of infectious disease co-occurrence could thus play a critical role in resolving or anticipating current and future disease threats. We analyzed the global occurrence patterns of 187 human infectious diseases across 225 countries and seven epidemiological classes (human-specific, zoonotic, vector-borne, non-vector-borne, bacterial, viral, and parasitic) to show that human infectious diseases exhibit distinct spatial grouping patterns at a global scale. We demonstrate, using outbreaks of Ebola virus as a test case, that this spatial structuring provides an untapped source of prior information that could be used to tighten the focus of a range of health-related research and management activities at early stages or in data-poor settings, including disease surveillance, outbreak responses, or optimizing pathogen discovery. In examining the correlates of these spatial patterns, among a range of geographic, epidemiological, environmental, and social factors, mammalian biodiversity was the strongest predictor of infectious disease co-occurrence overall and for six of the seven disease classes examined, giving rise to a striking congruence between global pathogeographic and Wallacean zoogeographic patterns. This clear biogeographic signal suggests that infectious disease assemblages remain fundamentally constrained in their distributions by ecological barriers to dispersal or establishment, despite the homogenizing forces of globalization. Pathogeography thus provides an overarching context in which other factors promoting infectious disease emergence and spread are set.	2015	112	10.1073/pnas.1507442112
Shay, PE; Winder, RS; Trofymow, JA	Nutrient-cycling microbes in coastal Douglas-fir forests: regional-scale correlation between communities, in situ climate, and other factors	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Microbes such as fungi and bacteria play fundamental roles in litter-decay and nutrient-cycling; however, their communities may respond differently than plants to climate change. The structure (diversity, richness, and evenness) and composition of microbial communities in climate transects of mature Douglas-fir stands of coastal British Columbia rainshadow forests was analyzed, in order to assess in situ variability due to different temperature and moisture regimes. We compared denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis profiles of fungi (18S-FF390/FR1), nitrogen-fixing bacteria (NifHuniversal) and ammonia-oxidizing bacteria (AmoA) polymerase chain reaction amplicons in forest floor and mineral soil samples from three transects located at different latitudes, each transect spanning the Coastal Western Hemlock and Douglas-fir biogeoclimatic zones. Composition of microbial communities in both soil layers was related to degree days above 0 degrees C (2725-3489), while pH (3.8-5.5) best explained shifts in community structure. At this spatial scale, climatic conditions were likely to directly or indirectly select for different microbial species while local site heterogeneity influenced community structure. Significant changes in microbial community composition and structure were related to differences as small as 2.47% and 2.55 degrees C in mean annual moisture and temperature variables, respectively. The climatic variables best describing microbial composition changed from one functional group to the next; in general they did not alter community structure. Spatial distance, especially associated with latitude, was also important in accounting for community variability (4-23%); but to a lesser extent than the combined influence of climate and soil characteristics (14-25%). Results suggest that in situ climate can independently account for some patterns of microbial biogeography in coastal Douglas-fir forests. The distribution of up to 43% of nutrientcycling microorganisms detected in forest soils responded to smaller abiotic gradients than host trees.	2015	6	10.3389/fmicb.2015.01097
Durand, L; Roumagnac, M; Cueff-Gauchard, V; Jan, C; Guri, M; Tessier, C; Haond, M; Crassous, P; Zbinden, M; Arnaud-Haond, S; Cambon-Bonavita, MA	Biogeographical distribution of Rimicaris exoculata resident gut epibiont communities along the Mid-Atlantic Ridge hydrothermal vent sites	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Rimicaris exoculata is a deep-sea hydrothermal vent shrimp whose enlarged gill chamber houses a complex trophic epibiotic community. Its gut harbours an autochthonous and distinct microbial community. This species dominates hydrothermal ecosystem megafauna along the Mid-Atlantic Ridge, regardless of contrasting geochemical conditions prevailing in them. Here, the resident gut epibiont community at four contrasted hydrothermal vent sites (Rainbow, TAG, Logatchev and Ashadze) was analysed and compiled with previous data to evaluate the possible influence of site location, using 16S rRNA surveys and microscopic observations (transmission electron microscopy, scanning electron microscopy and fluorescence in situ hybridization analyses). Filamentous epibionts inserted between the epithelial cell microvilli were observed on all examined samples. Results confirmed resident gut community affiliation to Deferribacteres, Mollicutes, Epsilonproteobacteria and to a lesser extent Gammaproteobacteria lineages. Still a single Deferribacteres phylotype was retrieved at all sites. Four Mollicutes-related operational taxonomic units were distinguished, one being only identified on Rainbow specimens. The topology of ribotype median-joining networks illustrated a community diversification possibly following demographic expansions, suggesting a more ancient evolutionary history and/or a larger effective population size at Rainbow. Finally, the gill chamber community distribution was also analysed through ribotype networks based on sequences from R. exoculata collected at the Rainbow, Snake Pit, TAG, Logatchev and Ashadze sites. Results allow the refining of hypotheses on the epibiont role and transmission pathways.	2015	91	10.1093/femsec/fiv101
Fernandez, LD; Lara, E; Mitchell, EAD	Checklist, diversity and distribution of testate amoebae in Chile	EUROPEAN JOURNAL OF PROTISTOLOGY	Bringing together more than 170 years of data, this study represents the first attempt to construct a species checklist and analyze the diversity and distribution of testate amoebae in Chile, a country that encompasses the southwestern region of South America, countless islands and part of the Antarctic. In Chile, known diversity includes 416 testate amoeba taxa (64 genera, 352 infrageneric taxa), 24 of which are here reported for the first time. Species accumulation plots show that in Chile, the number of testate amoeba species reported has been continually increasing since the mid-19th century without leveling off. Testate amoebae have been recorded in 37 different habitats, though they are more diverse in peatlands and rainforest soils. Only 11% of species are widespread in continental Chile, while the remaining 89% of the species exhibit medium or short latitudinal distribution ranges. Also, species composition of insular Chile and the Chilean Antarctic territory is a depauperated subset of that found in continental Chile. Nearly, the 10% of the species reported here are endemic to Chile and many of them are distributed only within the so-called Chilean biodiversity hotspot (ca. 25 degrees S-47 degrees S). These findings are here thoroughly discussed in a biogeographical and evolutionary context. (C) 2015 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.	2015	51	10.1016/j.ejop.2015.07.001
Lam, SSTH; Howell, KS	Drosophila-associated yeast species in vineyard ecosystems	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY LETTERS	Yeast activity during wine fermentation directly contributes to wine quality, but the source and movement of yeasts in vineyards and winery environments have not been resolved. Here, we investigate the yeast species associated with the Drosophila insect vector to help understand yeast dispersal and persistence. Drosophila are commonly found in vineyards and are known to have a mutualistic relationship with yeasts in other ecosystems. Drosophilids were collected from vineyards, grape waste (marc) piles and wineries during grape harvest. Captured flies were identified morphologically, and their associated yeasts were identified. Drosophila melanogaster/D. simulans, D. hydei and Scaptodrosophila lativittata were identified in 296 captured Drosophila flies. These flies were associated with Metschnikowia pulcherrima, Hanseniaspora uvarum, Torulaspora delbrueckii and H. valbyensis yeasts. Yeast and Drosophila species diversity differed between collection locations (vineyard and marc: R = 0.588 for Drosophila and R = 0.644 for yeasts). Surprisingly, the primary wine fermentation yeast, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, was not isolated. Drosophila flies are preferentially associated with different yeast species in the vineyard and winery environments, and this association may help the movement and dispersal of yeast species in the vineyard and winery ecosystem.	2015	362	10.1093/femsle/fnv170
Jiang, YF; Ling, J; Dong, JD; Chen, B; Zhang, YY; Zhang, YZ; Wang, YS	Illumina-based analysis the microbial diversity associated with Thalassia hemprichii in Xincun Bay, South China Sea	ECOTOXICOLOGY	In order to increase our understanding of the microbial diversity associated with seagrass Thalassia hernprichii in Xincun Bay, South China Sea, 16S rRNA gene was identified by highthrough sequencing method. Bacteria associated with seagrass T. hernprichii belonged to 37 phyla, 99 classes. The diversity of bacteria associated with seagrass was similar among the geographically linked coastal locations of Xincun Bay. Proteobacteria was the dominant bacteria and the alpha-proteobacteria had adapted to the seagrass ecological niche. As well, alpha-proteobacteria and Pseudomonadales were associated microflora in seagrass meadows, but the interaction between the bacteria and plant is needed to further research. Burkholderiales and Verrucomicrobiae indicated the influence of the bay from anthropogenic activities. Further, Cyanobacteria could imply the difference of the nutrient conditions in the sites. gamma-proteobacteria, Desulfobacterales and Pirellulales played a role in the cycle of sulfur, organic mineralization and meadow ecosystem, respectively. In addition, the less abundance bacteria species have key functions in the seagrass meadows, but there is lack knowledge of the interaction of the seagrass and less abundance bacteria species. Microbial communities can response to surroundings and play key functions in the biochemical cycle.	2015	24	10.1007/s10646-015-1511-z
Edmonds-Wilson, SL; Nurinova, NI; Zapka, CA; Fierer, N; Wilson, M	Review of human hand microbiome research	JOURNAL OF DERMATOLOGICAL SCIENCE	Recent advances have increased our understanding of the human microbiome, including the skin microbiome. Despite the importance of the hands as a vector for infection transmission, there have been no comprehensive reviews of recent advances in hand microbiome research or overviews of the factors that influence the composition of the hand microbiome. A comprehensive and systematic database search was conducted for skin microbiome-related articles published from January 1, 2008 to April 1, 2015. Only primary research articles that used culture-independent, whole community analysis methods to study the healthy hand skin microbiome were included. Eighteen articles were identified containing hand microbiome data. Most focused on bacteria, with relatively little reported on fungi, viruses, and protozoa. Bacteria from four phyla were found across all studies of the hand microbiome (most to least relative abundance): Firmicutes, Actinobacteria, Proteobacteria, Bacteroidetes. Key factors that impacted the hand microbiome composition included temporal and biogeographical dynamics, as well as intrinsic (age, gender) and extrinsic (product use, cohabitants, pet-ownership) variables. There was more temporal variability in the composition of the hand microbiome than in other body sites, making identification of the normal microbiome of the hands challenging. The microbiome of the hands is in constant flux as the hands are a critical vector for transmitting microorganisms between people, pets, inanimate objects and our environments. Future studies need to resolve methodological influences on results, and further investigate factors which alter the hand microbiome including the impact of products applied to hands. Increased understanding of the hand microbiome and the skin microbiome in general, will open the door to product development for disease prevention and treatment, and may lead to other applications, including novel diagnostic and forensic approaches. (C) 2015 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ireland Ltd. on behalf of Japanese Society for Investigative Dermatology.	2015	80	10.1016/j.jdermsci.2015.07.006
Powell, JR; Karunaratne, S; Campbell, CD; Yao, HY; Robinson, L; Singh, BK	Deterministic processes vary during community assembly for ecologically dissimilar taxa	NATURE COMMUNICATIONS	The continuum hypothesis states that both deterministic and stochastic processes contribute to the assembly of ecological communities. However, the contextual dependency of these processes remains an open question that imposes strong limitations on predictions of community responses to environmental change. Here we measure community and habitat turnover across multiple vertical soil horizons at 183 sites across Scotland for bacteria and fungi, both dominant and functionally vital components of all soils but which differ substantially in their growth habit and dispersal capability. We find that habitat turnover is the primary driver of bacterial community turnover in general, although its importance decreases with increasing isolation and disturbance. Fungal communities, however, exhibit a highly stochastic assembly process, both neutral and non-neutral in nature, largely independent of disturbance. These findings suggest that increased focus on dispersal limitation and biotic interactions are necessary to manage and conserve the key ecosystem services provided by these assemblages.	2015	6	10.1038/ncomms9444
Gong, J; Shi, F; Ma, B; Dong, J; Pachiadaki, M; Zhang, XL; Edgcomb, VP	Depth shapes alpha- and beta-diversities of microbial eukaryotes in surficial sediments of coastal ecosystems	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Little is known about the relative influence of historic processes and environmental gradients on shaping the diversity of single-celled eukaryotes in marine benthos. By combining pyrosequencing of 18S ribosomal RNA genes with data on multiple environmental factors, we investigated the diversity of microeukaryotes in surficial sediments of three basins of the Yellow Sea Large Marine Ecosystem. A considerable proportion (about 20%) of reads was affiliated with known parasitoid protists. Dinophyta and Ciliophora appeared dominant in terms of relative proportion of reads and operational taxonomic unit (OTU) richness. Overall, OTU richness of benthic microeukaryotes decreased with increasing water depth and decreasing pH. While community composition was significantly different among basins, partial Mantel tests indicated a depth-decay pattern of community similarity, whereby water depth, rather than geographic distance or environment, shaped -diversity of benthic microeukaryotes (including both the abundant and the rare biosphere) on a regional scale. Similar hydrographic and mineralogical factors contributed to the biogeography of both the abundant and the rare OTUs. The trace metal vanadium had a significant effect on the biogeography of the rare biosphere. Our study sheds new light on the composition, diversity patterns and underlying mechanisms of single-celled eukaryote distribution in surficial sediments of coastal oceans.	2015	17	10.1111/1462-2920.12763
Wang, K; Ye, XS; Chen, HP; Zhao, QF; Hu, CJ; He, JY; Qian, YX; Xiong, JB; Zhu, JL; Zhang, DM	Bacterial biogeography in the coastal waters of northern Zhejiang, East China Sea is highly controlled by spatially structured environmental gradients	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	The underlying mechanisms of microbial community assembly in connective coastal environments are unclear. The coastal water area of northern Zhejiang, East China Sea, is a complex marine ecosystem with multiple environmental gradients, where the distributions and determinants of bacterioplankton communities remain unclear. We collected surface water samples from 95 sites across eight zones in this area for investigating bacterial community with 16S rRNA gene high-throughput sequencing. Bacterial alpha-diversity exhibits strong associations with water chemical parameters and latitude, with 75.5% of variation explained by suspended particle. The composition of dominant phyla can group the sampling sites into four bacterial provinces, and most key discriminant phyla and families/genera of each province strongly associate with specific environmental features, suggesting that local environmental conditions shape the biogeographic provincialism of bacterial taxa. At a broader and finer phylogenetic scale, bacterial beta-diversity is dominantly explained by the shared variation of environmental and spatial factors (63.3%); meanwhile, the environmental determinants of bacterial -diversity generally exhibit spatially structured patterns, suggesting that bacterial assembly in surface water is highly controlled by spatially structured environmental gradients in this area. This study provides evidence for the unique biogeographic pattern of bacterioplankton communities at an entire scale of this marine ecosystem.	2015	17	10.1111/1462-2920.12884
Marzinelli, EM; Campbell, AH; Valdes, EZ; Verges, A; Nielsen, S; Wernberg, T; de Bettignies, T; Bennett, S; Caporaso, JG; Thomas, T; Steinberg, PD	Continental-scale variation in seaweed host-associated bacterial communities is a function of host condition, not geography	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Interactions between hosts and associated microbial communities can fundamentally shape the development and ecology of holobionts, from humans to marine habitat-forming organisms such as seaweeds. In marine systems, planktonic microbial community structure is mainly driven by geography and related environmental factors, but the large-scale drivers of host-associated microbial communities are largely unknown. Using 16S-rRNA gene sequencing, we characterized 260 seaweed-associated bacterial and archaeal communities on the kelp Ecklonia radiata from three biogeographical provinces spanning 10 degrees of latitude and 35 degrees of longitude across the Australian continent. These phylogenetically and taxonomically diverse communities were more strongly and consistently associated with host condition than geographical location or environmental variables, and a core microbial community characteristic of healthy kelps appears to be lost when hosts become stressed. Microbial communities on stressed individuals were more similar to each other among locations than those on healthy hosts. In contrast to biogeographical patterns of planktonic marine microbial communities, host traits emerge as critical determinants of associated microbial community structure of these holobionts, even at a continental scale.	2015	17	10.1111/1462-2920.12972
Han, D; Ha, HK; Hwang, CY; Lee, BY; Hur, HG; Lee, YK	Bacterial communities along stratified water columns at the Chukchi Borderland in the western Arctic Ocean	DEEP-SEA RESEARCH PART II-TOPICAL STUDIES IN OCEANOGRAPHY	An expedition of the IBRV ARAON took place in the Arctic Ocean during the summer of 2010. To investigate the hydrographic features and bacterial variations in water columns, we categorized 16 water samples collected from distinct water masses at the Chukchi Borderland in the western Arctic Ocean. Bacterial diversity, relative abundance, and community composition were determined based on a pyrosequencing approach, and their relationship with water mass properties was considered. Alphaproteobacteria (43.2%), Gammaproteobacteria (16.7%), Flavobacteria (13.7%), and Deltaproteobacteria (12.0%) were the most common bacteria found in all samples, and the relative abundance of these predominant taxa represent the population dynamics of bacterial communities in different water masses (from the euphotic to the sub-euphotic zone) in the Arctic Ocean. Furthermore, the relative abundance of Alphaproteobacteria and its subgroup, SARI! group 1, were significantly related to depth change in water columns, suggesting that environmental heterogeneity caused by changes in depth may play an important role in bacterial population dynamics. In this study, bacterial communities in the Arctic Ocean exhibit biogeographic patterns according to the type of water mass. The halocline layer between the Pacific winter water and Atlantic water exhibits a variation in the composition of bacterial communities, which may be influenced by mixing of Pacific winter water and Atlantic water. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2015	120	10.1016/j.dsr2.2015.01.018
Sintes, E; De Corte, D; Ouillon, N; Herndl, GJ	Macroecological patterns of archaeal ammonia oxidizers in the Atlantic Ocean	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	Macroecological patterns are found in animals and plants, but also in micro-organisms. Macroecological and biogeographic distribution patterns in marine Archaea, however, have not been studied yet. Ammonia-oxidizing Archaea (AOA) show a bipolar distribution (i.e. similar communities in the northernmost and the southernmost locations, separated by distinct communities in the tropical and gyral regions) throughout the Atlantic, detectable from epipelagic to upper bathypelagic layers (<2000m depth). This tentatively suggests an influence of the epipelagic conditions of organic matter production on bathypelagic AOA communities. The AOA communities below 2000m depth showed a less pronounced biogeographic distribution pattern than the upper 2000m water column. Overall, AOA in the surface and deep Atlantic waters exhibit distance-decay relationships and follow the Rapoport rule in a similar way as bacterial communities and macroorganisms. This indicates a major role of environmental conditions in shaping the community composition and assembly (species sorting) and no, or only weak limits for dispersal in the oceanic thaumarchaeal communities. However, there is indication of a different strength of these relationships between AOA and Bacteria, linked to the intrinsic differences between these two domains.	2015	24	10.1111/mec.13365
Chong, CW; Pearce, DA; Convey, P	Emerging spatial patterns in Antarctic prokaryotes	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Recent advances in knowledge of patterns of biogeography in terrestrial eukaryotic organisms have led to a fundamental paradigm shift in understanding of the controls and history of life on land in Antarctica, and its interactions over the long term with the glaciological and geological processes that have shaped the continent. However, while it has long been recognized that the terrestrial ecosystems of Antarctica are dominated by microbes and their processes, knowledge of microbial diversity and distributions has lagged far behind that of the macroscopic eukaryote organisms. Increasing human contact with and activity in the continent is leading to risks of biological contamination and change in a region whose isolation has protected it for millions of years at least; these risks may be particularly acute for microbial communities which have, as yet, received scant recognition and attention. Even a matter apparently as straightforward as Protected Area designation in Antarctica requires robust biodiversity data which, in most parts of the continent, remain almost completely unavailable. A range of important contributing factors mean that it is now timely to reconsider the state of knowledge of Antarctic terrestrial prokaryotes. Rapid advances in molecular biological approaches are increasingly demonstrating that bacterial diversity in Antarctica may be far greater than previously thought, and that there is overlap in the environmental controls affecting both Antarctic prokaryotic and eukaryotic communities. Bacterial dispersal mechanisms and colonization patterns remain largely unaddressed, although evidence for regional evolutionary differentiation is rapidly accruing and, with this, there is increasing appreciation of patterns in regional bacterial biogeography in this large part of the globe. In this review, we set out to describe the state of knowledge of Antarctic prokaryote diversity patterns, drawing analogy with those of eukaryote groups where appropriate. Based on our synthesis, it is clear that spatial patterns of Antarctic prokaryotes can be unique at local scales, while the limited evidence available to date supports the group exhibiting overall regional biogeographical patterns similar to the eukaryotes. We further consider the applicability of the concept of functional redundancy for the Antarctic microbial community and highlight the requirements for proper consideration of their important and distinctive roles in Antarctic terrestrial ecosystems.	2015	6	10.3389/fmicb.2015.01058
Price, MT; Fullerton, H; Moyer, CL	Biogeography and evolution of Thermococcus isolates from hydrothermal vent systems of the Pacific	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Thermococcus is a genus of hyperthermophilic archaea that is ubiquitous in marine hydrothermal environments growing in anaerobic subsurface habitats but able to survive in cold oxygenated seawater. DNA analyses of Thermococcus isolates were applied to determine the relationship between geographic distribution and relatedness focusing primarily on isolates from the Juan de Fuca Ridge and South East Pacific Rise. Amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) analysis and multilocus sequence typing (MLST) were used to resolve genomic differences in 90 isolates of Thermococcus, making biogeographic patterns and evolutionary relationships apparent. Isolates were differentiated into regionally endemic populations however there was also evidence in some lineages of cosmopolitan distribution. The biodiversity identified in Thermococcus isolates and presence of distinct lineages within the same vent site suggests the utilization of varying ecological niches in this genus. In addition to resolving biogeographic patterns in Thermococcus, this study has raised new questions about the closely related Pyrococcus genus. The phylogenetic placement of Pyrococcus type strains shows the close relationship between Thermococcus and Pyrococcus and the unresolved divergence of these two genera.	2015	6	10.3389/fmicb.2015.00968
Liu, LM; Yang, J; Lv, H; Yu, XQ; Wilkinson, DM; Yang, J	Phytoplankton Communities Exhibit a Stronger Response to Environmental Changes than Bacterioplankton in Three Subtropical Reservoirs	ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY	The simultaneous analysis of multiple components of ecosystems is crucial for comprehensive studies of environmental changes in aquatic ecosystems, but such studies are rare. In this study, we analyzed simultaneously the bacterioplankton and phytoplankton communities in three Chinese subtropical reservoirs and compared the response of these two components to seasonal environmental changes. Time-lag analysis indicated that the temporal community dynamics of both bacterioplankton and phytoplankton showed significant directional changes, and variance partitioning suggested that the major reason was the gradual improvement of reservoir water quality from middle eutrophic to oligo-mesotrophic levels during the course of our study. In addition, we found a higher level of temporal stability or stochasticity in the bacterioplankton community than in the phytoplankton community. Potential explanations are that traits associated with bacteria, such as high abundance, widespread dispersal, potential for rapid growth rates, and rapid evolutionary adaptation, may underlie the different stability or stochasticity of bacterioplankton and phytoplankton communities to the environmental changes. In addition, the indirect response of bacterioplankton to nitrogen and phosphorus may result in the fact that environmental deterministic selection was stronger for the phytoplankton than for the bacterioplankton communities.	2015	49	10.1021/acs.est.5b02637
Pointing, SB; Budel, B; Convey, P; Gillman, LN; Korner, C; Leuzinger, S; Vincent, WF	Biogeography of photoautotrophs in the high polar biome	FRONTIERS IN PLANT SCIENCE	The global latitudinal gradient in biodiversity weakens in the high polar biome and so an alternative explanation for distribution of Arctic and Antarctic photoautotrophs is required. Here we identify how temporal, microclimate and evolutionary drivers of biogeography are important, rather than the macroclimate features that drive plant diversity patterns elsewhere. High polar ecosystems are biologically unique, with a more central role for bryophytes, lichens and microbial photoautotrophs over that of vascular plants. Constraints on vascular plants arise mainly due to stature and ontogenetic barriers. Conversely non-vascular plant and microbial photoautotroph distribution is correlated with favorable microclimates and the capacity for poikilohydric dormancy. Contemporary distribution also depends on evolutionary history, with adaptive and dispersal traits as well as legacy influencing biogeography. We highlight the relevance of these findings to predicting future impacts on diversity of polar photoautotrophs and to the current status of plants in Arctic and Antarctic conservation policy frameworks.	2015	6	10.3389/fpls.2015.00692
Hu, HW; Zhang, LM; Yuan, CL; Zheng, Y; Wang, JT; Chen, DL; He, JZ	The large-scale distribution of ammonia oxidizers in paddy soils is driven by soil pH, geographic distance, and climatic factors	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Paddy soils distribute widely from temperate to tropical regions, and are characterized by intensive nitrogen fertilization practices in China. Mounting evidence has confirmed the functional importance of ammonia-oxidizing archaea (AOA) and bacteria (AOB) in soil nitrification, but little is known about their biogeographic distribution patterns in paddy ecosystems. Here, we used barcoded pyrosequencing to characterize the effects of climatic, geochemical and spatial factors on the distribution of ammonia oxidizers from 11 representative rice-growing regions (75-1945 km apart) of China. Potential nitrification rates varied greatly by more than three orders of magnitude, and were significantly correlated with the abundances of AOA and AOB. The community composition of ammonia oxidizer was affected by multiple factors, but changes in relative abundances of the major lineages could be best predicted by soil pH. The alpha diversity of AOA and AOB displayed contrasting trends over the gradients of latitude and atmospheric temperature, indicating a possible niche separation between AOA and AOB along the latitude. The Bray-Curtis dissimilarities in ammonia-oxidizing community structure significantly increased with increasing geographical distance, indicating that more geographically distant paddy fields tend to harbor more dissimilar ammonia oxidizers. Variation partitioning analysis revealed that spatial, geochemical and climatic factors could jointly explain majority of the data variation, and were important drivers defining the ecological niches of AOA and AOB. Our findings suggest that both AOA and AOB are of functional importance in paddy soil nitrification, and ammonia oxidizers in paddy ecosystems exhibit large-scale biogeographic patterns shaped by soil pH, geographic distance, and climatic factors.	2015	6	10.3389/fmicb.2015.00938
Meirelles, LA; Solomon, SE; Bacci, M; Wright, AM; Mueller, UG; Rodrigues, A	Shared Escovopsis parasites between leaf-cutting and non-leaf-cutting ants in the higher attine fungus-growing ant symbiosis	ROYAL SOCIETY OPEN SCIENCE	Fungus-gardening (attine) ants grow fungus for food in protected gardens, which contain beneficial, auxiliary microbes, but also microbes harmful to gardens. Among these potentially pathogenic microorganisms, the most consistently isolated are fungi in the genus Escovopsis, which are thought to co-evolve with ants and their cultivar in a tripartite model. To test clade-to-clade correspondence between Escovopsis and ants in the higher attine symbiosis (including leaf-cutting and non-leaf-cutting ants), we amassed a geographically comprehensive collection of Escovopsis from Mexico to southern Brazil, and reconstructed the corresponding Escovopsis phylogeny. Contrary to previous analyses reporting phylogenetic divergence between Escovopsis from leafcutters and Trachymyrmex ants (non-leafcutter), we found no evidence for such specialization; rather, gardens from leafcutters and non-leafcutters genera can sometimes be infected by closely related strains of Escovopsis, suggesting switches at higher phylogenetic levels than previously reported within the higher attine symbiosis. Analyses identified rare Escovopsis strains that might represent biogeographically restricted endemic species. Phylogenetic patterns correspond to morphological variation of vesicle type (hyphal structures supporting spore-bearing cells), separating Escovopsis with phylogenetically derived cylindrical vesicles from ancestral Escovopsis with globose vesicles. The new phylogenetic insights provide an improved basis for future taxonomic and ecological studies of Escovopsis.	2015	2	10.1098/rsos.150257
Stern, RF; Picard, KT; Hamilton, KM; Walne, A; Tarran, GA; Mills, D; McQuatters-Gollop, A; Edwards, M	Novel lineage patterns from an automated water sampler to probe marine microbial biodiversity with ships of opportunity	PROGRESS IN OCEANOGRAPHY	There is a paucity of data on long-term, spatially resolved changes in microbial diversity and biogeography in marine systems, and yet these organisms underpin fundamental ecological processes in the oceans affecting socio-economic values of the marine environment. We report results from a new autonomous Water and Microplankton Sampler (WaMS) that is carried within the Continuous Plankton Recorder (CPR). Whilst the CPR with its larger mesh size (270 gm), is designed to capture larger plankton, the WaMS was designed as an additional device to capture plankton below 50 mu m and delicate larger species, often destroyed by net sampling methods. A 454 pyrosequencing and flow cytometric investigation of eukaryotic microbes using the partial 18S rDNA from thirteen WaMS samples collected over three months in the English Channel revealed a wide diversity of organisms. Alveolates, Fungi, and picoplanktonic Chlorophytes were the most common lineages captured despite the small sample volumes (200-250 ml). The survey also identified Cercozoa and MAST heterotrophic Stramenopiles, normally missed in microscopic-based plankton surveys. The most common was the likely parasitic LKM11 Rozellomycota lineage which comprised 43.2% of all reads and are rarely observed in marine pelagic surveys. An additional 9.5% of reads belonged to other parasitic lineages including marine Syndiniales and Ichthyosporea. Sample variation was considerable, indicating that microbial diversity is spatially or temporally patchy. Our study has shown that the WaMS sampling system is autonomous, versatile and robust, and due to its deployment on the established CPR network, is a cost-effective monitoring tool for microbial diversity for the detection of smaller and delicate taxa. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2015	137	10.1016/j.pocean.2015.04.015
Park, JS; Simpson, AGB	Diversity of Heterotrophic Protists from Extremely Hypersaline Habitats	PROTIST	Heterotrophic protists (protozoa) are a diverse but understudied component of the biota of extremely hypersaline environments, with few data on molecular diversity within halophile species, and almost nothing known of their biogeographic distribution. We have garnered SSU rRNA gene sequences for several clades of halophilic protozoa from enrichments from waters of >12.5% salinity from Australia, North America, and Europe (6 geographic sites, 25 distinct samples). The small stramenopile Halocafeteria was found at all sites, but phylogenies did not show clear geographic clustering. The ciliate Trimyema was recorded from 6 non-European samples. Phylogenies confirmed a monophyletic halophilic Trimyema group that included possible south-eastern Australian, Western Australian and North American clusters. Several halophilic Heterolobosea were detected, demonstrating that Pleurostomum contains at least three relatively distinct clades, and increasing known continental ranges for Tulamoeba peronaphora and Euplaesiobystra hypersalinica. The unclassified flagellate Palustrimonas, found in one Australian sample, proves to be a novel deep-branching alveolate. These results are consistent with a global distribution of halophilic protozoa groups (similar to morphospecies), but the Trimyema case suggests that is worth testing whether larger forms exhibit biogeographic phylogenetic substructure. The molecular detection/characterization of halophilic protozoa is still far from complete at the clade level, let alone the species level. (C) 2015 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.	2015	166	10.1016/j.protis.2015.06.001
Geremia, RA; Roy, J; Mouhamadou, B; Choler, P; Bonneville, JM	Spatio-temporal variations of alpine soil microbial communities - influences of plants, soil chemistry and biogeographic history	YEAST		2015	32	
Freedman, Z; Zak, DR	Soil bacterial communities are shaped by temporal and environmental filtering: evidence from a long-term chronosequence	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Soil microbial communities are abundant, hyper-diverse and mediate global biogeochemical cycles, but we do not yet understand the processes mediating their assembly. Current hypothetical frameworks suggest temporal (e.g. dispersal limitation) and environmental (e.g. soil pH) filters shape microbial community composition; however, there is limited empirical evidence supporting this framework in the hyper-diverse soil environment, particularly at large spatial (i.e. regional to continental) and temporal (i.e. 100 to 1000 years) scales. Here, we present evidence from a long-term chronosequence (4000 years) that temporal and environmental filters do indeed shape soil bacterial community composition. Furthermore, nearly 20 years of environmental monitoring allowed us to control for potentially confounding environmental variation. Soil bacterial communities were phylogenetically distinct across the chronosequence. We determined that temporal and environmental factors accounted for significant portions of bacterial phylogenetic structure using distance-based linear models. Environmental factors together accounted for the majority of phylogenetic structure, namely, soil temperature (19%), pH (17%) and litter carbon:nitrogen (C:N; 17%). However, of all individual factors, time since deglaciation accounted for the greatest proportion of bacterial phylogenetic structure (20%). Taken together, our results provide empirical evidence that temporal and environmental filters act together to structure soil bacterial communities across large spatial and long-term temporal scales.	2015	17	10.1111/1462-2920.12762
Iancu, L; Carter, DO; Junkins, EN; Purcarea, C	Using bacterial and necrophagous insect dynamics for post-mortem interval estimation during cold season: Novel case study in Romania	FORENSIC SCIENCE INTERNATIONAL	Considering the biogeographical characteristics of forensic entomology, and the recent development of forensic microbiology as a complementary approach for post-mortem interval estimation, the current study focused on characterizing the succession of necrophagous insect species and bacterial communities inhabiting the rectum and mouth cavities of swine (Sus scrofa domesticus) carcasses during a cold season outdoor experiment in an urban natural environment of Bucharest, Romania. We monitored the decomposition process of three swine carcasses during a 7 month period (November 2012-May 2013) corresponding to winter and spring periods of a temperate climate region. The carcasses, protected by wire cages, were placed on the ground in a park type environment, while the meteorological parameters were constantly recorded. The succession of necrophagous Diptera and Coleoptera taxa was monitored weekly, both the adult and larval stages, and the species were identified both by morphological and genetic characterization. The structure of bacterial communities from swine rectum and mouth tissues was characterized during the same time intervals by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) and sequencing of 16S rRNA gene fragments. We observed a shift in the structure of both insect and bacterial communities, primarily due to seasonal effects and the depletion of the carcass. A total of 14 Diptera and 6 Coleoptera species were recorded on the swine carcasses, from which Calliphora vomitoria and C. vicina (Diptera: Calliphoridae), Necrobia violacea (Coleoptera: Cleridae) and Thanatophilus rugosus (Coleoptera: Silphidae) were observed as predominant species. The first colonizing wave, primarily Calliphoridae, was observed after 15 weeks when the temperature increased to 13 degrees C. This was followed by Muscidae, Fanniidae, Anthomyiidae, Sepsidae and Piophilidae. Families belonging to Coleoptera Order were observed at week 18 when temperatures raised above 18 degrees C, starting with Cleridae, Silphidae, and followed by Histeridae, Staphylinidae and Dermestidae. For bacteria, 53 taxa belonging to phyla Proteobacteria (Gammaproteobacteria, Betaproteobacteria), Firmicutes and Bacteroidetes were identified from the mouth cavity (36 OTUs) and rectum cavity (17 OTUs). These shifts in insect and bacterial communities indicated their complementary role in the carcass decomposition process. These results represent the first forensic entomological and microbiological survey in Romania. This study shows the value of forensic entomology as a tool for forensic investigations in Romania and neighboring areas with similar biogeographical characteristics. Moreover, this study represents a novel approach for understanding taphonomy and estimating post-mortem interval during cold season by combining entomological and microbiological methods. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.	2015	254	10.1016/j.forsciint.2015.07.024
Hu, SK; Liu, ZF; Lie, AAY; Countway, PD; Kim, DY; Jones, AC; Gast, RJ; Cary, SC; Sherr, EB; Sherr, BF; Caron, DA	Estimating Protistan Diversity Using High-Throughput Sequencing	JOURNAL OF EUKARYOTIC MICROBIOLOGY	Sequencing hypervariable regions from the 18S rRNA gene is commonly employed to characterize protistan biodiversity, yet there are concerns that short reads do not provide the same taxonomic resolution as full-length sequences. A total of 7,432 full-length sequences were used to perform an in silico analysis of how sequences of various lengths and target regions impact downstream ecological interpretations. Sequences that were longer than 400 nucleotides and included the V4 hypervariable region generated results similar to those derived from full-length 18S rRNA gene sequences. Present high-throughput sequencing capabilities are approaching protistan diversity estimation comparable to whole gene sequences.	2015	62	10.1111/jeu.12217
Pinto, C; Pinho, D; Cardoso, R; Custodio, V; Fernandes, J; Sousa, S; Pinheiro, M; Egas, C; Gomes, AC	Wine fermentation microbiome: a landscape from different Portuguese wine appellations	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Grapes and wine musts harbor a complex microbiome, which plays a crucial role in wine fermentation as it impacts on wine flavour and, consequently, on its final quality and value. Unveiling the microbiome and its dynamics, and understanding the ecological factors that explain such biodiversity, has been a challenge to oenology. In this work, we tackle this using a metagenomics approach to describe the natural microbial communities, both fungal and bacterial microorganisms, associated with spontaneous wine fermentations. For this, the wine microbiome, from six Portuguese wine appellations, was fully characterized as regards to three stages of fermentation - Initial Musts (IM), and Start and End of alcoholic fermentations (SF and EF, respectively). The wine fermentation process revealed a higher impact on fungal populations when compared with bacterial communities, and the fermentation evolution clearly caused a loss of the environmental microorganisms. Furthermore, significant differences (p < 0.05) were found in the fungal populations between IM, SF, and EF, and in the bacterial population between IM and SF. Fungal communities were characterized by either the presence of environmental microorganisms and phytopathogens in the IM, or yeasts associated with alcoholic fermentations in wine must samples as Saccharomyces and non-Saccharomyces yeasts (as Lachancea, Metschnikowia, Hanseniaspora, Hyphopichia, Sporothrix, Candida, and Schizosaccharomyces). Among bacterial communities, the most abundant family was Enterobacteriaceae; though families of species associated with the production of lactic acid (Lactobacillaceae, Leuconostocaceae) and acetic acid (Acetobacteriaceae) were also detected. Interestingly, a biogeographical correlation for both fungal and bacterial communities was identified between wine appellations at IM suggesting that each wine region contains specific and embedded microbial communities which may contribute to the uniqueness of regional wines.	2015	6	10.3389/fmicb.2015.00905
Teske, A; Reysenbach, AL	Editorial: Hydrothermal microbial ecosystems	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY		2015	6	10.3389/fmicb.2015.00884
Morrison-Whittle, P; Goddard, MR	Quantifying the relative roles of selective and neutral processes in defining eukaryotic microbial communities	ISME JOURNAL	We have a limited understanding of the relative contributions of different processes that regulate microbial communities, which are crucial components of both natural and agricultural ecosystems. The contributions of selective and neutral processes in defining community composition are often confounded in field studies because as one moves through space, environments also change. Managed ecosystems provide an excellent opportunity to control for this and evaluate the relative strength of these processes by minimising differences between comparable niches separated at different geographic scales. We use next-generation sequencing to characterize the variance in fungal communities inhabiting adjacent fruit, soil and bark in comparable vineyards across 1000 kms in New Zealand. By compartmentalizing community variation, we reveal that niche explains at least four times more community variance than geographic location. We go beyond merely demonstrating that different communities are found in both different niches and locations by quantifying the forces that define these patterns. Overall, selection unsurprisingly predominantly shapes these microbial communities, but we show the balance of neutral processes also have a significant role in defining community assemblage in eukaryotic microbes.	2015	9	10.1038/ismej.2015.18
Liu, LM; Yang, J; Yu, Z; Wilkinson, DM	The biogeography of abundant and rare bacterioplankton in the lakes and reservoirs of China	ISME JOURNAL	Bacteria play key roles in the ecology of both aquatic and terrestrial ecosystems; however, little is known about their diversity and biogeography, especially in the rare microbial biosphere of inland freshwater ecosystems. Here we investigated aspects of the community ecology and geographical distribution of abundant and rare bacterioplankton using high-throughput sequencing and examined the relative influence of local environmental variables and regional (spatial) factors on their geographical distribution patterns in 42 lakes and reservoirs across China. Our results showed that the geographical patterns of abundant and rare bacterial subcommunities were generally similar, and both of them showed a significant distance-decay relationship. This suggests that the rare bacterial biosphere is not a random assembly, as some authors have assumed, and that its distribution is most likely subject to the same ecological processes that control abundant taxa. However, we identified some differences between the abundant and rare groups as both groups of bacteria showed a significant positive relationship between sites occupancy and abundance, but the abundant bacteria exhibited a weaker distance-decay relationship than the rare bacteria. Our results implied that rare subcommunities were mostly governed by local environmental variables, whereas the abundant subcommunities were mainly affected by regional factors. In addition, both local and regional variables that were significantly related to the spatial variation of abundant bacterial community composition were different to those of rare ones, suggesting that abundant and rare bacteria may have discrepant ecological niches and may play different roles in natural ecosystems.	2015	9	10.1038/ismej.2015.29
Thomson, BC; Tisserant, E; Plassart, P; Uroz, S; Griffiths, RI; Hannula, SE; Buee, M; Mougel, C; Ranjard, L; Van Veen, JA; Martin, F; Bailey, MJ; Lemanceau, P	Soil conditions and land use intensification effects on soil microbial communities across a range of European field sites	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	Intensive land use practices necessary for providing food and raw materials are known to have a deleterious effect on soil. However, the effects that such practices have on soil microbes are less well understood. To investigate the effects of land use intensification on soil microbial communities we used a combined T-RFLP and pyrosequencing approach to study bacteria, archaea and fungi in spring and autumn at five long term observatories (LTOs) in Europe; each with a particular land use type and contrasting levels of intensification (low and high). Generally, due to large gradients in soil variables, both molecular methods revealed that soil microbial communities were structured according to differences in soil conditions between the LTOs, more so than land use intensity. Moreover, variance partitioning analysis also showed that soil properties better explained the differences in microbial communities than land use intensity effects. Predictable responses in dominant bacterial, archaeal and fungal taxa to edaphic conditions (e.g. soil pH and resource availability) were apparent between the LTOs. Some effects of land use intensification at individual field sites were observed. However, these effects were manifest when land use change affected soil conditions. Uniquely, this study details the responses of different microbial groups to soil type and land use intensification, and their relative importance across a range of European field sites. These findings reinforce our understanding of drivers impacting soil microbial community structure at both field and larger geographic scales. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2015	88	10.1016/j.soilbio.2015.06.012
Boeddinghaus, RS; Nunan, N; Berner, D; Marhan, S; Kandeler, E	Do general spatial relationships for microbial biomass and soil enzyme activities exist in temperate grassland soils?	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	In heterogeneous environments such as soil it is imperative to understand the spatial relationships between microbial communities, microbial functioning and microbial habitats in order to predict microbial services in managed grasslands. Grassland land-use intensity has been shown to affect the spatial distribution of soil microorganisms, but so far it is unknown whether this is transferable from one geographic region to another. This study evaluated the spatial distribution of soil microbial biomass and enzyme activities involved in C-, N- and P-cycling, together with physico-chemical soil properties in 18 grassland sites differing in their land-use intensity in two geographic regions: the Hainich National Park in the middle of Germany and the Swabian Alb in south-west Germany. Enzyme activities associated with the C- and N-cycles, namely beta-glucosidase, xylosidase and chitinase, orgailic carbon (C-org), total nitrogen (N-t), extractable organic carbon, and mineral nitrogen (N-min) were higher in the Swabian Alb (Leptosols) than in the Hainich National Park (primarily Stagnosols). There was a negative relationship between bulk density and soil properties such as microbial biomass (C-mic, N-mic), urease, C-org, and N-t. The drivers (local abiotic soil properties, spatial separation) of the enzyme profiles (beta-glucosidase, chitinase, xylosidase, phosphatase, and urease) were determined through a spatial analysis of the within site variation of enzyme profiles and abiotic properties, using the Procrustes rotation test. The test revealed that physical and chemical properties showed more spatial pattern than the enzyme profiles. beta-glucosidase, chitinase, xylosidase, phosphatase, and urease activities were related to local abiotic soil properties, but showed little spatial correlation. Semivariogram modeling revealed that the ranges of spatial autocorrelation of all measured variables were site specific and not related to region or to land-use intensity. Nevertheless, land-use intensity changed the occurrence of spatial patterns measurable at the plot scale: increasing land-use intensity led to an increase in detectable spatial patterns for abiotic soil properties on Leptosols. The conclusion of this study is that microbial biomass and functions in grassland soils do not follow general spatial distribution patterns, but that the spatial distribution is site-specific and mainly related to the abiotic properties of the soils. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2015	88	10.1016/j.soilbio.2015.05.026
Mariadassou, M; Pichon, S; Ebert, D	Microbial ecosystems are dominated by specialist taxa	ECOLOGY LETTERS	Abundance and specificity are two key characteristics of species distribution and biodiversity. Theories of species assembly aim to reproduce the empirical joint patterns of specificity and abundance, with the goal to explain patterns of biodiversity across habitats. The specialist-generalist paradigm predicts that specialists should have a local advantage over generalists and thus be more abundant. We developed a specificity index to analyse abundance-specificity relationships in microbial ecosystems. By analysing microbiota spanning 23 habitats from three very different data sets covering a wide range of sequencing depths and environmental conditions, we find that habitats are consistently dominated by specialist taxa, resulting in a strong, positive correlation between abundance and specificity. This finding is consistent over several levels of taxonomic aggregation and robust to errors in abundance measures. The relationship explains why shallow sequencing captures similar -diversity as deep sequencing, and can be sufficient to capture the habitat-specific functions of microbial communities.	2015	18	10.1111/ele.12478
De Castro, O; Gianguzzi, L; Carucci, F; De Luca, A; Gesuele, R; Guida, M	Old sleeping Sicilian beauty: seed germination in the palaeoendemic Petagnaea gussonei (Spreng.) Rauschert (Saniculoideae, Apiaceae)	PLANT BIOLOGY	Petagnaea gussonei (Apiaceae) is a perennial herbaceous species endemic to northeast Sicily (Nebrodi Mountains). It is considered a remnant of the Sicilian Tertiary flora, and is endangered according to the Red List. There is no information in the literature about the germinability of its seeds, even though seed production is know to occur. The aim of this study was to obtain data to better understand seed germination of this species and its biological implications. Thus, several approaches were employed: vitality analyses, gibberellic acid supply, germination and soil microbial flora analyses via end-point and qPCR. The results suggest that seed germination occurs after ca. 1.5years at a rate of ca. 11%. The seeds can be classified as physiologically dormant, and probably require prolonged cold stratification for germination. Because seed germination is low, it is likely that agamic reproduction represents an important mean for its conservation and survival. These results have important implications for P.gussonei survival and should be considered in possible re-introduction attempts aimed at restoring threatened populations.	2015	17	10.1111/plb.12333
Viale, E; Martinez-Sanudo, I; Brown, JM; Simonato, M; Girolami, V; Squartini, A; Bressan, A; Faccoli, M; Mazzon, L	Pattern of association between endemic Hawaiian fruit flies (Diptera, Tephritidae) and their symbiotic bacteria: Evidence of cospeciation events and proposal of Candidatus Stammerula trupaneae	MOLECULAR PHYLOGENETICS AND EVOLUTION	Several insect lineages have evolved mutualistic association with symbiotic bacteria. This is the case of some species of mealybugs, whiteflies, weevils, tsetse flies, cockroaches, termites, carpenter ants, aphids and fruit flies. Some species of Tephritinae, the most specialized subfamily of fruit flies (Diptera: Tephritidae), harbour co-evolved vertically transmitted, bacterial symbionts in their midgut, known as Candidatus Stammerula spp.. The 25 described endemic species of Hawaiian tephritids, plus at least three undescribed species, are taxonomically distributed among three genera: the cosmopolitan genus Trupanea (21 described spp.), the endemic genus Phaeogramma (2 spp.) and the Nearctic genus Neotephritis (2 spp.). We examined the presence of symbiotic bacteria in the endemic tephritids of the Hawaiian Islands, which represent a spectacular example of adaptive radiation, and tested the concordant evolution between host and symbiont phylogenies. We detected through PCR assays the presence of specific symbiotic bacteria, designated as Candidatus Stammerula trupaneae, from 35 individuals of 15 species. The phylogeny of the insect host was reconstructed based on two regions of the mitochondrial DNA (16S rDNA and COI-tRNALeu-COII), while the bacterial 16S rRNA was used for the symbiont analysis. Host and symbiont phylogenies were then compared and evaluated for patterns of cophylogeny and strict cospeciation. Topological congruence between Hawaiian Tephritinae and their symbiotic bacteria phylogenies suggests a limited, but significant degree of host-symbiont cospeciation. We also explored the character reconstruction of three host traits, as island location, host lineage, and host tissue attacked, based on the symbiont phylogenies under the hypothesis of cospeciation. (C) 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.	2015	90	10.1016/j.ympev.2015.04.025
Bokulich, NA; Amiranashvili, L; Chitchyan, K; Ghazanchyan, N; Darbinyan, K; Gagelidze, N; Sadunishvili, T; Goginyan, V; Kvesitadze, G; Torok, T; Mills, DA	Microbial biogeography of the transnational fermented milk matsoni	FOOD MICROBIOLOGY	The fermented milk matsoni is a traditional, national food product of both Georgia and Armenia. Little is known about the effects of biogeography and milk type on the microbial biodiversity of matsoni or the fungal composition of matsoni fermentations. High-throughput marker-gene sequencing was used to survey the bacterial and fungal communities of matsoni from different milk types and regions throughout Armenia and Georgia. Results demonstrate that both production region and milk type influence matsoni microbiota, suggesting that the traditional production methods preserve the transfer of unique regional microbiota from batch to batch. Bacterial profiles were dominated by Lactobacillus and Streptococcus species. Yeast profiles varied dramatically, with Kluyveromyces marxianus, Candida famata, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Lodderomyces elongisporus, and Kluyveromyces lactis being the most important species distinguishing production regions and milk types. This survey will enable more detailed capture and characterization of specific microbiota detected within these fermentations. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2015	50	10.1016/j.fm.2015.01.018
Davison, J; Moora, M; Ouml;pik, M; Adholeya, A; Ainsaar, L; Ba, A; Burla, S; Diedhiou, AG; Hiiesalu, I; Jairus, T; Johnson, NC; Kane, A; Koorem, K; Kochar, M; Ndiaye, C; Partel, M; Reier, U; Saks, U; Singh, R; Vasar, M; Zobel, M	Global assessment of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus diversity reveals very low endemism	SCIENCE	The global biogeography of microorganisms remains largely unknown, in contrast to the well-studied diversity patterns of macroorganisms. We used arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungus DNA from 1014 plant-root samples collected worldwide to determine the global distribution of these plant symbionts. We found that AM fungal communities reflected local environmental conditions and the spatial distance between sites. However, despite AM fungi apparently possessing limited dispersal ability, we found 93% of taxa on multiple continents and 34% on all six continents surveyed. This contrasts with the high spatial turnover of other fungal taxa and with the endemism displayed by plants at the global scale. We suggest that the biogeography of AM fungi is driven by unexpectedly efficient dispersal, probably via both abiotic and biotic vectors, including humans.	2015	349	10.1126/science.aab1161
He, ST; Zhi, XY; Jiang, HC; Yang, LL; Wu, JY; Zhang, YG; Hozzein, WN; Li, WJ	Biogeography of Nocardiopsis strains from hypersaline environments of Yunnan and Xinjiang Provinces, western China	SCIENTIFIC REPORTS	The genus Nocardiopsis is a widespread group within the phylum Actinobacteria and has been isolated from various salty environments worldwide. However, little is known about whether biogeography affects Nocardiopsis distribution in various hypersaline environments. Such information is essential for understanding the ecology of Nocardiopsis. Here we analyzed 16S rRNA, gyrB, rpoB and sodA genes of 78 Nocardiopsis strains isolated from hypersaline environments in Yunnan and Xinjiang Provinces of western China. The obtained Nocardiopsis strains were classified into five operational taxonomic units, each comprising location-specific phylo- and genotypes. Statistical analyses showed that spatial distance and environmental factors substantially influenced Nocardiopsis distribution in hypersaline environments: the former had stronger influence at large spatial scales, whereas the latter was more influential at small spatial scales.	2015	5	10.1038/srep13323
Boeuf, D; Audic, S; Brillet-Gueguen, L; Caron, C; Jeanthon, C	MicRhoDE: a curated database for the analysis of microbial rhodopsin diversity and evolution	DATABASE-THE JOURNAL OF BIOLOGICAL DATABASES AND CURATION	Microbial rhodopsins are a diverse group of photoactive transmembrane proteins found in all three domains of life and in viruses. Today, microbial rhodopsin research is a flourishing research field in which new understandings of rhodopsin diversity, function and evolution are contributing to broader microbiological and molecular knowledge. Here, we describe MicRhoDE, a comprehensive, high-quality and freely accessible database that facilitates analysis of the diversity and evolution of microbial rhodopsins. Rhodopsin sequences isolated from a vast array of marine and terrestrial environments were manually collected and curated. To each rhodopsin sequence are associated related metadata, including predicted spectral tuning of the protein, putative activity and function, taxonomy for sequences that can be linked to a 16S rRNA gene, sampling date and location, and supporting literature. The database currently covers 7857 aligned sequences from more than 450 environmental samples or organisms. Based on a robust phylogenetic analysis, we introduce an operational classification system with multiple phylogenetic levels ranging from superclusters to species-level operational taxonomic units. An integrated pipeline for online sequence alignment and phylogenetic tree construction is also provided. With a user-friendly interface and integrated online bioinformatics tools, this unique resource should be highly valuable for upcoming studies of the biogeography, diversity, distribution and evolution of microbial rhodopsins.	2015		10.1093/database/bav080
Stoof-Leichsenring, KR; Herzschuh, U; Pestryakova, LA; Klemm, J; Epp, LS; Tiedemann, R	Genetic data from algae sedimentary DNA reflect the influence of environment over geography	SCIENTIFIC REPORTS	Genetic investigations on eukaryotic plankton confirmed the existence of modern biogeographic patterns, but analyses of palaeoecological data exploring the temporal variability of these patterns have rarely been presented. Ancient sedimentary DNA proved suitable for investigations of past assemblage turnover in the course of environmental change, but genetic relatedness of the identified lineages has not yet been undertaken. Here, we investigate the relatedness of diatom lineages in Siberian lakes along environmental gradients (i.e. across treeline transects), over geographic distance and through time (i.e. the last 7000 years) using modern and ancient sedimentary DNA. Our results indicate that closely-related Staurosira lineages occur in similar environments and less-related lineages in dissimilar environments, in our case different vegetation and co-varying climatic and limnic variables across treeline transects. Thus our study reveals that environmental conditions rather than geographic distance is reflected by diatom-relatedness patterns in space and time. We tentatively speculate that the detected relatedness pattern in Staurosira across the treeline could be a result of adaptation to diverse environmental conditions across the arctic boreal treeline, however, a geographically-driven divergence and subsequent repopulation of ecologically different habitats might also be a potential explanation for the observed pattern.	2015	5	10.1038/srep12924
Sanchez-Ramirez, S; Etienne, RS; Moncalvo, JM	High speciation rate at temperate latitudes explains unusual diversity gradients in a clade of ectomycorrhizal fungi	EVOLUTION	Understanding the patterns of biodiversity through time and space is a challenging task. However, phylogeny-based macroevolutionary models allow us to account and measure many of the processes responsible for diversity buildup, namely speciation and extinction. The general latitudinal diversity gradient (LDG) is a well-recognized pattern describing a decline in species richness from the equator polewards. Recent macroecological studies in ectomycorrhizal (EM) fungi have shown that their LDG is shifted, peaking at temperate rather than tropical latitudes. Here we investigate this phenomenon from a macroevolutionary perspective, focusing on a well-sampled group of edible EM mushrooms from the genus Amanitathe Caesars mushrooms, which follow similar diversity patterns. Our approach consisted in applying a suite of models including (1) nontrait-dependent time-varying diversification (Bayesian analysis of macroevolutionary mixtures [BAMM]), (2) continuous trait-dependent diversification (quantitative-state speciation and extinction [QuaSSE]), and (3) diversity-dependent diversification. In short, results give strong support for high speciation rates at temperate latitudes (BAMM and QuaSSE). We also find some evidence for different diversity-dependence thresholds in temperate and tropical subclades, and little differences in diversity due to extinction. We conclude that our analyses on the Caesars mushrooms give further evidence of a temperate-peaking LDG in EM fungi, highlighting the importance and the implications of macroevolutionary processes in explaining diversity gradients in microorganisms.	2015	69	10.1111/evo.12722
Genio, L; Rodrigues, CF; Guedes, IF; Almeida, H; Duperron, S; Hilario, A	Mammal carcasses attract a swarm of mussels in the deep Atlantic: insights into colonization and biogeography of a chemosymbiotic species	MARINE ECOLOGY-AN EVOLUTIONARY PERSPECTIVE	Five mammal carcasses were experimentally deployed at 1000 m depth in the Setubal Canyon (NE Atlantic) in March 2011 and the remaining bones were collected after 18 and 28 months. High numbers (1.92-6.27 individuals.cm(2)) of small mussels were found among a diverse invertebrate assemblage colonizing surfaces, crevices and cavities in the trabecular matrix of bones. In this study we characterized the mussel population and their associated bacteria and investigated population structure and settlement patterns. The results of molecular analysis indicated that the mussels are conspecific with the widely distributed bathymodiolin species Idas simpsoni and harbor sulfur-oxidizing bacterial symbionts. Modal decomposition of length-frequency distributions and estimated shell growth rate suggested that settlement of I. simpsoni is continuous and that post-settlement mortality affects the population structure. This study reports the highest densities and fastest growth rates within bathymodiolin mussels occurring on organic substrates yet recorded and provides evidence for effective mussel recruitment in organic falls in the NE Atlantic Ocean. These results highlight the importance of ephemeral habitats on the biogeographic distribution and dispersal of chemosymbiotic species in deep-sea ecosystems.	2015	36	10.1111/maec.12217
Hsieh, CJ; Zhan, SH; Lin, Y; Tang, SL; Liu, SL	ANALYSIS OF rbcL SEQUENCES REVEALS THE GLOBAL BIODIVERSITY, COMMUNITY STRUCTURE, AND BIOGEOGRAPHICAL PATTERN OF THERMOACIDOPHILIC RED ALGAE (CYANIDIALES)	JOURNAL OF PHYCOLOGY	Thermoacidophilic cyanidia (Cyanidiales) are the primary photosynthetic eukaryotes in volcanic areas. These red algae also serve as important model organisms for studying life in extreme habitats. The global biodiversity and community structure of Cyanidiales remain unclear despite previous sampling efforts. Here, we surveyed the Cyanidiales biodiversity in the Tatun Volcano Group (TVG) area in Taiwan using environmental DNA sequencing. We generated 174 rbcL sequences from eight samples from four regions in the TVG area, and combined them with 239 publicly available rbcL sequences collected worldwide. Species delimitation using this large rbcL data set suggested at least 20 Cyanidiales OTUs (operational taxonomic units) worldwide, almost three times the presently recognized seven species. Results from environmental DNA showed that OTUs in the TVG area were divided into three groups: (i) dominant in hot springs with 92%-99% sequence identity to Galdieria maxima; (ii) largely distributed in drier and more acidic microhabitats with 99% identity to G. partita; and (iii) primarily distributed in cooler microhabitats and lacking identity to known cyanidia species (a novel Cyanidiales lineage). In both global and individual area analyses, we observed greater species diversity in non-aquatic than aquatic habitats. Community structure analysis showed high similarity between the TVG community and West Pacific-Iceland communities, reflecting their geographic proximity to each other. Our study is the first examination of the global species diversity and biogeographic affinity of cyanidia. Additionally, our data illuminate the influence of microhabitat type on Cyanidiales diversity and highlight intriguing questions for future ecological research.	2015	51	10.1111/jpy.12310
Rillig, MC; Antonovics, J; Caruso, T; Lehmann, A; Powell, JR; Veresoglou, SD; Verbruggen, E	Interchange of entire communities: microbial community coalescence	TRENDS IN ECOLOGY & EVOLUTION	Microbial communities are enigmatically diverse. We propose a novel view of processes likely affecting microbial assemblages, which could be viewed as the Great American Interchange en miniature: the wholesale exchange among microbial communities resulting from moving pieces of the environment containing entire assemblages. Incidental evidence for such community coalescence is accumulating, but such processes are rarely studied, likely because of the absence of suitable terminology or a conceptual framework. We provide the nucleus for such a conceptual foundation for the study of community coalescence, examining factors shaping these events, links to bodies of ecological theory, and we suggest modeling approaches for understanding coalescent communities. We argue for the systematic study of community coalescence because of important functional and applied consequences.	2015	30	10.1016/j.tree.2015.06.004
Frydman, GH; Davis, N; Beck, PL; Fox, JG	Helicobacter pylori Eradication in Patients with Immune Thrombocytopenic Purpura: A Review and the Role of Biogeography	HELICOBACTER	Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) is typically a diagnosis of exclusion, assigned by clinicians after ruling out other identifiable etiologies. Since a report by Gasbarrini et al. in 1998, an accumulating body of evidence has proposed a pathophysiological link between ITP and chronic Helicobacter pylori (H.pylori) infection. Clinical reports have described a spontaneous resolution of ITP symptoms in about 50% of chronic ITP patients following empirical treatment of H.pylori infection, but response appears to be geography dependent. Studies have also documented that ITP patients in East Asian countries are more likely to express positive antibody titers against H.pylori-specific cytotoxic-associated gene A (CagA), a virulence factor that is associated with an increased risk for gastric diseases including carcinoma. While a definitive mechanism by which H.pylori may induce thrombocytopenia remains elusive, proposed pathways include molecular mimicry of CagA by host autoantibodies against platelet surface glycoproteins, as well as perturbations in the phagocytic activity of monocytes. Traditional treatments of ITP have been largely empirical, involving the use of immunosuppressive agents and immunoglobulin therapy. However, based on the findings of clinical reports emerging over the past 20years, health organizations around the world increasingly suggest the detection and eradication of H.pylori as a treatment for ITP. Elucidating the exact molecular mechanisms of platelet activation in H.pylori-positive ITP patients, while considering biogeographical differences in response rates, could offer insight into how best to use clinical H.pylori eradication to treat ITP, but will require well-designed studies to confirm the suggested causative relationship between bacterial infection and an autoimmune disease state.	2015	20	10.1111/hel.12200
Hug, LA; Thomas, BC; Brown, CT; Frischkorn, KR; Williams, KH; Tringe, SG; Banfield, JF	Aquifer environment selects for microbial species cohorts in sediment and groundwater	ISME JOURNAL	Little is known about the biogeography or stability of sediment-associated microbial community membership because these environments are biologically complex and generally difficult to sample. High-throughput-sequencing methods provide new opportunities to simultaneously genomically sample and track microbial community members across a large number of sampling sites or times, with higher taxonomic resolution than is associated with 16 S ribosomal RNA gene surveys, and without the disadvantages of primer bias and gene copy number uncertainty. We characterized a sediment community at 5m depth in an aquifer adjacent to the Colorado River and tracked its most abundant 133 organisms across 36 different sediment and groundwater samples. We sampled sites separated by centimeters, meters and tens of meters, collected on seven occasions over 6 years. Analysis of 1.4 terabase pairs of DNA sequence showed that these 133 organisms were more consistently detected in saturated sediments than in samples from the vadose zone, from distant locations or from groundwater filtrates. Abundance profiles across aquifer locations and from different sampling times identified organism cohorts that comprised subsets of the 133 organisms that were consistently associated. The data suggest that cohorts are partly selected for by shared environmental adaptation.	2015	9	10.1038/ismej.2015.2
Cloutier, DD; Alm, EW; McLellan, SL	Influence of Land Use, Nutrients, and Geography on Microbial Communities and Fecal Indicator Abundance at Lake Michigan Beaches	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Microbial communities within beach sand play a key role in nutrient cycling and are important to the nearshore ecosystem function. Escherichia coli and enterococci, two common indicators of fecal pollution, have been shown to persist in the beach sand, but little is known about how microbial community assemblages are related to these fecal indicator bacteria (FIB) reservoirs. We examined eight beaches across a geographic gradient and range of land use types and characterized the indigenous community structure in the water and the backshore, berm, and submerged sands. FIB were found at similar levels in sand at beaches adjacent to urban, forested, and agricultural land and in both the berm and backshore. However, there were striking differences in the berm and backshore microbial communities, even within the same beach, reflecting the very different environmental conditions in these beach zones in which FIB can survive. In contrast, the microbial communities in a particular beach zone were similar among beaches, including at beaches on opposite shores of Lake Michigan. The differences in the microbial communities that did exist within a beach zone correlated to nutrient levels, which varied among geographic locations. Total organic carbon and total phosphorus were higher in Wisconsin beach sand than in beach sand from Michigan. Within predominate genera, fine-scale sequence differences could be found that distinguished the populations from the two states, suggesting a biogeographic effect. This work demonstrates that microbial communities are reflective of environmental conditions at freshwater beaches and are able to provide useful information regarding long-term anthropogenic stress.	2015	81	10.1128/AEM.00233-15
Ferreira, V; Castagneyrol, B; Koricheva, J; Gulis, V; Chauvet, E; Graca, MAS	A meta-analysis of the effects of nutrient enrichment on litter decomposition in streams	BIOLOGICAL REVIEWS	The trophic state of many streams is likely to deteriorate in the future due to the continuing increase in human-induced nutrient availability. Therefore, it is of fundamental importance to understand how nutrient enrichment affects plant litter decomposition, a key ecosystem-level process in forest streams. Here, we present a meta-analysis of 99 studies published between 1970 and 2012 that reported the effects of nutrient enrichment on litter decomposition in running waters. When considering the entire database, which consisted of 840 case studies, nutrient enrichment stimulated litter decomposition rate by approximately 50%. The stimulation was higher when the background nutrient concentrations were low and the magnitude of the nutrient enrichment was high, suggesting that oligotrophic streams are most vulnerable to nutrient enrichment. The magnitude of the nutrient-enrichment effect on litter decomposition was higher in the laboratory than in the field experiments, suggesting that laboratory experiments overestimate the effect and their results should be interpreted with caution. Among field experiments, effects of nutrient enrichment were smaller in the correlative than in the manipulative experiments since in the former the effects of nutrient enrichment on litter decomposition were likely confounded by other environmental factors, e.g. pollutants other than nutrients commonly found in streams impacted by human activity. However, primary studies addressing the effect of multiple stressors on litter decomposition are still few and thus it was not possible to consider the interaction between factors in this review. In field manipulative experiments, the effect of nutrient enrichment on litter decomposition depended on the scale at which the nutrients were added: stream reach > streamside channel > litter bag. This may have resulted from a more uniform and continuous exposure of microbes and detritivores to nutrient enrichment at the stream-reach scale. By contrast, nutrient enrichment at the litter-bag scale, often by using diffusing substrates, does not provide uniform controllable nutrient release at either temporal or spatial scales, suggesting that this approach should be abandoned. In field manipulative experiments, the addition of both nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) resulted in stronger stimulation of litter decomposition than the addition of N or P alone, suggesting that there might be nutrient co-limitation of decomposition in streams. The magnitude of the nutrient-enrichment effect on litter decomposition was higher for wood than for leaves, and for low-quality than for high-quality leaves. The effect of nutrient enrichment on litter decomposition may also depend on climate. The tendency for larger effect size in colder regions suggests that patterns of biogeography of invertebrate decomposers may be modulating the effect of nutrient enrichment on litter decomposition. Although studies in temperate environments were overrepresented in our database, our meta-analysis suggests that the effect of nutrient enrichment might be strongest in cold oligotrophic streams that depend on low-quality plant litter inputs.	2015	90	10.1111/brv.12125
Hu, AY; Hou, LY; Yu, CP	Biogeography of Planktonic and Benthic Archaeal Communities in a Subtropical Eutrophic Estuary of China	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Mounting evidence suggests that Archaea are widespread and abundant in aquatic and terrestrial habitats and play fundamental roles in global biogeochemical cycles, yet the pattern and its ecological drivers of biogeographic distribution of archaeal community in estuarine ecosystem are still not well understood. Here, we investigated planktonic and benthic archaeal communities in the human-impacted Jiulong River estuary (JRE), southern China by using real-time PCR (RT-PCR) and Illumina 16S ribosomal RNA (rRNA) amplicon sequencing. RT-PCR analysis indicated that Archaea accounted for an average of 0.79 and 5.31 % of prokaryotic biomass in water and sediment samples of the JRE, respectively. The diversity of planktonic archaeal community decreased gradually from the river runoff to seawater, whereas that of benthic community did not show the similar pattern. The results of taxonomic assignments indicated that Thaumarchaeota (Nitrosopumilus and Cenarchaeum), Methanocorpusculum, and Methanospirillum were significantly more abundant in planktonic than benthic communities, whereas the relative abundances of Miscellaneous Crenarchaeotic Group, Marine Benthic Group-B/-D, anaerobic methane-oxidizing Archaea -1/-2D, and South Africa Gold Mine Euryarchaeotic Group 1 were higher in sediments than in surface waters. Moreover, planktonic archaeal community composition varied significantly at broad and finer-scale taxonomic levels along the salinity gradient. Multivariate statistical analyses revealed that salinity is the main factor structuring the JRE planktonic but not benthic archaeal community at both total community and population level. SourceTrakcer analysis indicated that river might be a major source of archaea in the freshwater zone of the JRE. Overall, this study advances our understanding of the biogeographic patterns and its ecological drivers of estuarine archaeal communities.	2015	70	10.1007/s00248-015-0597-4
Menzel, P; Gudbergsdottir, SR; Rike, AG; Lin, LB; Zhang, Q; Contursi, P; Moracci, M; Kristjansson, JK; Bolduc, B; Gavrilov, S; Ravin, N; Mardanov, A; Bonch-Osmolovskaya, E; Young, M; Krogh, A; Peng, X	Comparative Metagenomics of Eight Geographically Remote Terrestrial Hot Springs	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Hot springs are natural habitats for thermophilic Archaea and Bacteria. In this paper, we present the metagenomic analysis of eight globally distributed terrestrial hot springs from China, Iceland, Italy, Russia, and the USA with a temperature range between 61 and 92 C-a similar to and pH between 1.8 and 7. A comparison of the biodiversity and community composition generally showed a decrease in biodiversity with increasing temperature and decreasing pH. Another important factor shaping microbial diversity of the studied sites was the abundance of organic substrates. Several species of the Crenarchaeal order Thermoprotei were detected, whereas no single bacterial species was found in all samples, suggesting a better adaptation of certain archaeal species to different thermophilic environments. Two hot springs show high abundance of Acidithiobacillus, supporting the idea of a true thermophilic Acidithiobacillus species that can thrive in hyperthermophilic environments. Depending on the sample, up to 58 % of sequencing reads could not be assigned to a known phylum, reinforcing the fact that a large number of microorganisms in nature, including those thriving in hot environments remain to be isolated and characterized.	2015	70	10.1007/s00248-015-0576-9
Hargreaves, SK; Williams, RJ; Hofmockel, KS	Environmental Filtering of Microbial Communities in Agricultural Soil Shifts with Crop Growth	PLOS ONE	Plant and soil properties cooperatively structure soil microbial communities, with implications for ecosystem functioning. However, the extent to which each factor contributes to community structuring is not fully understood. To quantify the influence of plants and soil properties on microbial diversity and composition in an agricultural context, we conducted an experiment within a corn-based annual cropping system and a perennial switchgrass cropping system across three topographic positions. We sequenced barcoded 16S ribosomal RNA genes from whole soil three times throughout a single growing season and across two years in July. To target the belowground effects of plants, we also sampled rhizosphere soil in July. We hypothesized that microbial community alpha-diversity and composition (beta-diversity) would be more sensitive to cropping system effects (annual vs. perennial inputs) than edaphic differences among topographic positions, with greater differences occurring in the rhizosphere compared to whole soil. We found that microbial community composition consistently varied with topographic position, and cropping system and the rhizosphere influenced alpha-diversity. In July, cropping system and rhizosphere structured a small but specific group of microbes implying a subset of microbial taxa, rather than broad shifts in community composition, may explain previously observed differences in resource cycling between treatments. Using rank abundance analysis, we detected enrichment of Saprospirales and Actinomycetales, including cellulose and chitin degraders, in the rhizosphere soil and enrichment of Nitrospirales, Syntrophobacterales, and MND1 in the whole soil. Overall, these findings support environmental filtering for the soil microbial community first by soil and second by the rhizosphere. Across cropping systems, plants selected for a general rhizosphere community with evidence for plant-specific effects related to time of sampling.	2015	10	10.1371/journal.pone.0134345
Jay, ZJ; Inskeep, WP	The distribution, diversity, and importance of 16S rRNA gene introns in the order Thermoproteales	BIOLOGY DIRECT	Background: Intron sequences are common in 16S rRNA genes of specific thermophilic lineages of Archaea, specifically the Thermoproteales (phylum Crenarchaeota). Environmental sequencing (16S rRNA gene and metagenome) from geothermal habitats in Yellowstone National Park (YNP) has expanded the available datasets for investigating 16S rRNA gene introns. The objectives of this study were to characterize and curate archaeal 16S rRNA gene introns from high-temperature habitats, evaluate the conservation and distribution of archaeal 16S rRNA introns in geothermal systems, and determine which universal archaeal 16S rRNA gene primers are impacted by the presence of intron sequences. Results: Several new introns were identified and their insertion loci were constrained to thirteen locations across the 16S rRNA gene. Many of these introns encode homing endonucleases, although some introns were short or partial sequences. Pyrobaculum, Thermoproteus, and Caldivirga 16S rRNA genes contained the most abundant and diverse intron sequences. Phylogenetic analysis of introns revealed that sequences within the same locus are distributed biogeographically. The most diverse set of introns were observed in a high-temperature, circumneutral (pH 6) sulfur sediment environment, which also contained the greatest diversity of different Thermoproteales phylotypes. Conclusions: The widespread presence of introns in the Thermoproteales indicates a high probability of misalignments using different universal 16S rRNA primers employed in environmental microbial community analysis.	2015	10	10.1186/s13062-015-0065-6
Lehours, AC; Jeanthon, C	The hydrological context determines the beta-diversity of aerobic anoxygenic phototrophic bacteria in European Arctic seas but does not favor endemism	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Despite an increasing number of studies over the last 15 years, aerobic anoxygenic photoheterotrophic (AAP) bacteria remain a puzzling functional group in terms of physiology, metabolism, and ecology. To contribute to a better knowledge of their environmental distribution, the present study aims at analyzing their diversity and structure at the boundary between the Norwegian, Greenland, and Barents Seas. The polymorphism of a marker gene encoding a sub-unit of the photosynthetic apparatus (pufM gene) was analyzed and attempted to be related to environmental parameters. The Atlantic or Arctic origin of water masses had a strong impact on the AAP bacterial community structure whose populations mostly belonged to the Alpha- and Gammaproteobacteria. A majority (>60%) of pufM sequences were affiliated to the Gammaproteobacteria reasserting that this class often represents the major component of the AAP bacterial community in oceanic regions. Two alphaproteobacterial groups dominate locally suggesting that they can constitute key players in this marine system transiently. We found that temperature is a major determinant of alpha diversity of AAP bacteria in this marine biome with specific clades emerging locally according to the partitioning of water masses. Whereas we expected specific AAP bacterial populations in this peculiar and newly explored ecosystem, most pufM sequences were highly related to sequences retrieved elsewhere. This observation highlights that the studied area does not favor AAP bacteria endemism but also opens new questions about the truthfulness of biogeographical patterns and on the extent of AAP bacterial diversity.	2015	6	10.3389/fmicb.2015.00638
Stevens, JL; Olson, JB	Bacterial communities associated with lionfish in their native and invaded ranges	MARINE ECOLOGY PROGRESS SERIES	Lionfish, which are native to the Indo-Pacific, were introduced into the Western Atlantic Ocean, where they have become highly successful invaders. Previous work has demonstrated the presence of distinct lionfish populations within both the invaded and native ranges, but little is known about the specificity of the bacterial communities associated with lionfish surfaces. This study was designed to evaluate whether lionfish-associated bacterial communities reflected the geographical distribution patterns of their host. To this end, fin-associated bacterial communities from sites throughout the native and invaded ranges were analyzed. Lionfish were collected from 9 locations in the invaded Western Atlantic Ocean and 8 locations throughout their native Indo-Pacific. The composition of lionfish-associated bacterial communities was examined by terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism analyses following amplification of the bacterial 16S rRNA gene with universal prokaryotic primers 8F and 1392R. Lionfish-associated external bacterial communities were not significantly different between the native and invaded ranges, but differences were found between collection locations within each range. Although bacterial communities on lionfish skin demonstrated a greater similarity within collection site than between collection sites, a core group of bacteria dominated by members of the. Proteobacteria were found in lionfish-associated communities from both ranges. It is likely that lionfish maintain a core group of external bacteria throughout both the native and invaded ranges, but are differentially colonized by other bacteria from their local environments.	2015	531	10.3354/meps11323
Nair, AV; Joseph, N; Krishna, K; Sneha, KG; Tom, N; Jangid, K; Nair, S	A comparative study of coastal and clinical isolates of Pseudomonas aeruginosa	BRAZILIAN JOURNAL OF MICROBIOLOGY	Pseudomonas aeruginosa is a ubiquitous Gram-negative bacterium having a versatile metabolic potential and great ecological and clinical significance. The geographical distribution of P. aeruginosa has revealed the existence of an unbiased genetic arrangement in terrestrial isolates. In contrast, there are very few reports about P. aeruginosa strains from marine environments. The present work was aimed at studying the distribution of P. aeruginosa in coastal waters along the Indian Peninsula and understanding the environmental influence on genotypic, metabolic and phenotypic characteristics by comparing marine and clinical isolates. Of the 785 marine isolates obtained on selective media, only 32 (similar to 4.1%) were identified as P. aeruginosa, based on their fatty acid methyl ester profiles. A low Euclidian distance value (<2.5) obtained from chemotaxonomic analysis suggested that all the environmental (coastal and marine) isolates originated from a single species. While UPGMA analyses of AP-PCR and phenotypic profiles separated the environmental and clinical isolates, fatty acid biotyping showed overlapping between most clinical and environmental isolates. Our study revealed the genetic diversity among different environmental isolates of P. aeruginosa. While biogeographical separation was not evident based solely on phenotypic and metabolic typing, genomic and metatranscriptomic studies are more likely to show differences between these isolates. Thus, newer and more insightful methods are required to understand the ecological distribution of this complex group of bacteria.	2015	46	10.1590/S1517-838246320140502
Liu, L; Hart, MM; Zhang, JL; Cai, XB; Gai, JP; Christie, P; Li, XL; Klironomos, JN	Altitudinal distribution patterns of AM fungal assemblages in a Tibetan alpine grassland	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	A better understanding of biogeography of Glomeromycota is essential for the conservation of arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungal species and the ecosystem services that they provide worldwide. We examined the spatial dynamics of AM fungi along two slopes (4149 m a.s.l. to the summit at 5033 m a.s.l.) of Mount Mila on the Tibetan Plateau. Our hypothesis was that AM fungal communities at higher elevation would show distinct assemblages with lower diversity in conditions of increasing environmental harshness. A total of 52 operational taxonomic units (OTUs) spanning all four orders were detected and some OTUs were habitat specific. Nearly 30% of the OTUs were new phylotypes, including two family-like clades. Distinct communities of AM fungi were found at the higher elevation, demonstrating potential niche differentiation along the elevation gradient. Elevation patterns of taxon richness/diversity differed between the two transects, decreasing with increasing elevation on the eastern slope and being unimodal (or lacking a pattern) on the western slope. Taken together, our findings provide evidence of a significant spatial structure of AM fungi across the elevation gradient, with the distribution patterns of these fungi regulated simultaneously by the plant communities, soil properties and climatic conditions in this plateau montane ecosystem.	2015	91	10.1093/femsec/fiv078
Souffreau, C; Van der Gucht, K; van Gremberghe, I; Kosten, S; Lacerot, G; Lobao, LM; Huszar, VLD; Roland, F; Jeppesen, E; Vyverman, W; De Meester, L	Environmental rather than spatial factors structure bacterioplankton communities in shallow lakes along a > 6000km latitudinal gradient in South America	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Metacommunity studies on lake bacterioplankton indicate the importance of environmental factors in structuring communities. Yet most of these studies cover relatively small spatial scales. We assessed the relative importance of environmental and spatial factors in shaping bacterioplankton communities across a >6000km latitudinal range, studying 48 shallow lowland lakes in the tropical, tropicali (isothermal subzone of the tropics) and tundra climate regions of South America using denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis. Bacterioplankton community composition (BCC) differed significantly across regions. Although a large fraction of the variation in BCC remained unexplained, the results supported a consistent significant contribution of local environmental variables and to a lesser extent spatial variables, irrespective of spatial scale. Upon correction for space, mainly biotic environmental factors significantly explained the variation in BCC. The abundance of pelagic cladocerans remained particularly significant, suggesting grazer effects on bacterioplankton communities in the studied lakes. These results confirm that bacterioplankton communities are predominantly structured by environmental factors, even over a large-scale latitudinal gradient (6026km), and stress the importance of including biotic variables in studies that aim to understand patterns in BCC.	2015	17	10.1111/1462-2920.12692
Roeselers, G; Coolen, J; van der Wielen, PWJJ; Jaspers, MC; Atsma, A; de Graaf, B; Schuren, F	Microbial biogeography of drinking water: patterns in phylogenetic diversity across space and time	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	In this study, we collected water from different locations in 32 drinking water distribution networks in the Netherlands and analysed the spatial and temporal variation in microbial community composition by high-throughput sequencing of 16S rRNA gene amplicons. We observed that microbial community compositions of raw source and processed water were very different for each distribution network sampled. In each network, major differences in community compositions were observed between raw and processed water, although community structures of processed water did not differ substantially from end-point tap water. End-point water samples within the same distribution network revealed very similar community structures. Network-specific communities were shown to be surprisingly stable in time. Biofilm communities sampled from domestic water metres varied distinctly between households and showed no resemblance to planktonic communities within the same distribution networks. Our findings demonstrate that high-throughput sequencing provides a powerful and sensitive tool to probe microbial community composition in drinking water distribution systems. Furthermore, this approach can be used to quantitatively compare the microbial communities to match end-point water samples to specific distribution networks. Insight in the ecology of drinking water distribution systems will facilitate the development of effective control strategies that will ensure safe and high-quality drinking water.	2015	17	10.1111/1462-2920.12739
Wang, YM; Yang, J; Liu, LMA; Yu, Z	Quantifying the effects of geographical and environmental factors on distribution of stream bacterioplankton within nature reserves of Fujian, China	ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE AND POLLUTION RESEARCH	Bacterioplankton are important components of freshwater ecosystems and play essential roles in ecological functions and processes; however, little is known about their geographical distribution and the factors influencing their ecology, especially in stream ecosystems. To examine how geographical and environmental factors affect the composition of bacterioplankton communities, we used denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis and clone sequencing to survey bacterioplankton communities in 31 samples of streamwater from seven nature reserves in Fujian province, southeast China. Our results revealed that dominant bacterioplankton communities exhibited a distinct geographical pattern. Further, we provided evidence for distance decay relationships in bacterioplankton community similarity and found similar community gradients in response to elevation and latitude. Both redundancy analyses and Mantel tests showed that bacterioplankton community composition was significantly correlated with both environmental (electrical conductivity, total phosphorus, and PO4-P) and geographical factors (latitude, longitude, and elevation). Variance partitioning further showed that the joint effect of geographical and environmental factors explained the largest proportion of the variation in distribution of bacterioplankton communities (13.6 %), followed by purely geographical factors (11.2 %), and purely environmental factors (0.6 %). The Betaproteobacteria were the most common taxa in the streams, followed by Firmicutes and Gammaproteobacteria. Therefore, our results suggest that the biogeographical patterns of stream bacterioplankton communities across the Fujian nature reserves are more influenced by geographical factors than by local physicochemical properties.	2015	22	10.1007/s11356-015-4308-y
Orr, CH; Stewart, CJ; Leifert, C; Cooper, JM; Cummings, SP	Effect of crop management and sample year on abundance of soil bacterial communities in organic and conventional cropping systems	JOURNAL OF APPLIED MICROBIOLOGY	AimsTo identify changes in the bacterial community, at the phylum level brought about by varied crop management. Methods and ResultsNext-generation sequencing methods were used to compare the taxonomic structure of the bacterial community within 24 agricultural soils managed with either organic or conventional methods, over a 3-year period. Relative abundance of the proportionately larger phyla (e.g. Acidobacteria and Actinobacteria) was primarily affected by sample year rather than crop management. Changes of abundance in these phyla were correlated with changes in pH, organic nitrogen and soil basal respiration. Crop management affected some of the less dominant phyla (Chloroflexi, Nitrospirae, Gemmatimonadetes) which also correlated with pH and organic N. ConclusionSoil diversity can vary with changing environmental variables and soil chemistry. If these factors remain constant, soil diversity can also remain constant even under changing land use. Significance and Impact of the StudyThe impact of crop management on environmental variables must be considered when interpreting bacterial diversity studies in agricultural soils. Impact of land use change should always be monitored across different sampling time points. Further studies at the functional group level are necessary to assess whether management-induced changes in bacterial community structure are of biological and agronomic relevance.	2015	119	10.1111/jam.12822
Liu, JW; Liu, XS; Wang, M; Qiao, YL; Zheng, YF; Zhang, XH	Bacterial and Archaeal Communities in Sediments of the North Chinese Marginal Seas	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Microbial communities of the Chinese marginal seas have rarely been reported. Here, bacterial and archaeal community structures and abundance in the surface sediment of four sea areas including the Bohai Sea (BS), North Yellow Sea (NYS), South Yellow Sea (SYS), and the north East China Sea (NECS) were surveyed by 16S ribosomal RNA (rRNA) gene pyrosequencing and quantitative PCR. The results showed that microbial communities of the four geographic areas were distinct from each other at the operational taxonomic unit (OTU) level, whereas the microbial communities of the BS, NYS, and SYS were more similar to each other than to the NECS at higher taxonomic levels. Across all samples, Bacteria were numerically dominant relative to Archaea, and among them, Gammaproteobacteria and Euryarchaeota were predominant in the BS, NYS, and SYS, while Deltaproteobacteria and Thaumarchaeota were prevalent in the NECS. The most abundant bacterial genera were putative sulfur oxidizer and sulfate reducer, suggesting that sulfur cycle processes might prevail in these areas, and the high abundance of dsrB (10(7)-10(8) copies g(-1)) in all sites verified the dominance of sulfate reducer in the north Chinese marginal seas. The differences in sediment sources among the sampling areas were potential explanations for the observed microbial community variations. Furthermore, temperature and dissolved oxygen of bottom water were significant environmental factors in determining both bacterial and archaeal communities, whereas chlorophyll a in sediment was significant only in structuring archaeal community. This study presented an outline of benthic microbial communities and provided insights into understanding the biogeochemical cycles in sediments of the north Chinese marginal seas.	2015	70	10.1007/s00248-014-0553-8
Shi, Y; Grogan, P; Sun, HB; Xiong, JB; Yang, YF; Zhou, JZ; Chu, HY	Multi-scale variability analysis reveals the importance of spatial distance in shaping Arctic soil microbial functional communities	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	Understanding biological diversity and distribution patterns at multiple spatial scales is a central issue in ecology. Here, we investigated the biogeographical patterns of microbial functional genes in 24 heath soils from across the Arctic using GeoChip-based metagenomics and principal coordinates of neighbour matrices (PCNM)-based analysis. Functional gene richness varied considerably among sites, while the proportions of each major functional gene category were evenly distributed. Functional gene composition varied significantly at most medium to large spatial scales, and the PCNM analyses indicated that 14 20% of the variation in total and major functional gene categories could be attributed primarily to relatively large-scale spatial effects that were consistent with broad-scale variation in soil pH and total nitrogen. The combination of variance partitioning and multi-scales analysis indicated that spatial distance effects accounted for 12% of the total variation in functional gene composition, whereas environmental factors accounted for only 3%. This small but significant influence of spatial variation in determining functional gene distributions contrasts sharply with typical microbial phylotype/species-based biogeographical patterns (including these same Arctic soil samples), which are primarily determined by contemporary environmental heterogeneities. Therefore, our results suggest that historical contingencies such as disturbance events, physical heterogeneities, community interactions or dispersal barriers that occurred in the past, have some significant influence on soil functional gene distribution patterns. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2015	86	10.1016/j.soilbio.2015.03.028
Regan, KM; Nunan, N; Boeddinghaus, RS; Baumgartner, V; Berner, D; Boch, S; Oelmann, Y; Overmann, J; Prati, D; Schloter, M; Schmitt, B; Sorkau, E; Steffens, M; Kandeler, E; Marhan, S	Seasonal controls on grassland microbial biogeography: are they governed by plants, abiotic properties or both? (vol 71, pg 21, 2014)	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY		2015	86	10.1016/j.soilbio.2015.03.026
Shi, YW; Tapa, MS; Li, C; Yang, HM; Zhang, T; Gao, Y; Sun, J; Zeng, J; Lin, Q; Cao, ZH; Outi, KE; Li, YG; Lou, K	Diversity and space-time dynamics of endophytic archaea from sugar beet in the north slope of Tianshan Mountain revealed by 454 pyrosequencing and T-RFLP	WORLD JOURNAL OF MICROBIOLOGY & BIOTECHNOLOGY	Plants harbor complex and variable microbial communities. Using molecular-based techniques targeting the 16S rRNA gene, we studied the developmental stages and geographical location diversity of endophytic archaea in two locations (Shihezi and Changji) and four periods (the seedling growth, rosette formation, tuber growth and sucrose accumulation sampling periods) in the north slope of Tianshan Mountain, China. Community structure of mixed sample from 60 sugar beet plants was examined using PCR-based 454 pyrosequencing and terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP). In total, 5290 archaea 16S rRNA sequences were obtained from all sugar beet samples. The most abundant archaea groups in all sugar beet were Methanococci, the miscellaneous Crenarchaeotic Group and Thermoplasmata. There was a marked difference in diversity of endophytic archaea in sugar beet for different growth periods. The greatest number of Operational T-RFLP Units (OTUs) was detected during sucrose accumulation (298) and rosette formation (282). Endophytic archaea diversity was reduced during seedling growth (128 OTUs) and tuber growth (55 OTUs). Nine OTUs were common to all four periods of growth. There were more OTUs in Shihezi than in Changji. Clustering analysis and principal component analysis of T-RFLP data revealed distinct shifts in endophytic archaea community profiles that corresponded to plant growth stage rather than geographical location. The dynamics of endophytic archaea communities were influenced by plant growth stage. To our knowledge, this is the first report that archaea has been identified as endophytes associated with sugar beet by the culture-independent approach. The results suggest that the diversity of endophytic archaea is abundant in sugar beet.	2015	31	10.1007/s11274-015-1853-y
Cockell, CS; Cousins, C; Wilkinson, PT; Olsson-Francis, K; Rozitis, B	Are thermophilic microorganisms active in cold environments?	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF ASTROBIOLOGY	The mean air temperature of the Icelandic interior is below 10 degrees C. However, we have previously observed 16S rDNA sequences associated with thermophilic lineages in Icelandic basalts. Measurements of the temperatures of igneous rocks in Iceland showed that solar insolation of these low albedo substrates achieved a peak surface temperature of 44.5 degrees C. We isolated seven thermophilic Geobacillus species from basalt with optimal growth temperatures of similar to 65 degrees C. The minimum growth temperature of these organisms was similar to 36 degrees C, suggesting that they could be active in the rock environment. Basalt dissolution rates at 40 degrees C were increased in the presence of one of the isolates compared to abiotic controls, showing its potential to be involved in active biogeochemistry at environmental temperatures. These data raise the possibility of transient active thermophilic growth in macroclimatically cold rocky environments, implying that the biogeographical distribution of active thermophiles might be greater than previously understood. These data show that temperatures measured or predicted over large scales on a planet are not in themselves adequate to assess niches available to extremophiles at micron scales.	2015	14	10.1017/S1473550414000433
Suh, SS; Park, M; Hwang, J; Kil, EJ; Jung, SW; Lee, S; Lee, TK	Seasonal Dynamics of Marine Microbial Community in the South Sea of Korea	PLOS ONE	High-resolution 16S rRNA tag pyrosequencing was used to obtain seasonal snapshots of the bacterial diversity and community structure at two locations in Gosung Bay (South Sea, Korea) over a one year period. Seasonal sampling from the water column at each site revealed highly diverse bacterial communities containing up to 900 estimated Operational Taxonomic Units (OTUs). The Alphaproteobacteria and Gammaproteobacteria were the most abundant groups, and the most frequently recorded OTUs were members of Pelagibacter and Glaciecola. In particular, it was observed that Arcobacter, a genus of the Epsilonproteobacteria, dominated during summer. In addition, Psedoalteromonadaceae, Vibrionaceae and SAR11-1 were predominant members of the OTUs found in all sampling seasons. Environmental factors significantly influenced the bacterial community structure among season, with the phosphate and nitrate concentrations contributing strongly to the spatial distribution of the Alphaproteobacteria; the Gammaproteobacteria, Flavobacteria, and Actinobacteria all showed marked negative correlations with all measured nutrients, particularly silicon dioxide and chlorophyll-a. The results suggest that seasonal changes in environmental variables contribute to the dynamic structure of the bacterial community in the study area.	2015	10	10.1371/journal.pone.0131633
Chown, SL; Clarke, A; Fraser, CI; Cary, SC; Moon, KL; McGeoch, MA	The changing form of Antarctic biodiversity	NATURE	Antarctic biodiversity is much more extensive, ecologically diverse and biogeographically structured than previously thought. Understanding of how this diversity is distributed in marine and terrestrial systems, the mechanisms underlying its spatial variation, and the significance of the microbiota is growing rapidly. Broadly recognizable drivers of diversity variation include energy availability and historical refugia. The impacts of local human activities and global environmental change nonetheless pose challenges to the current and future understanding of Antarctic biodiversity. Life in the Antarctic and the Southern Ocean is surprisingly rich, and as much at risk from environmental change as it is elsewhere.	2015	522	10.1038/nature14505
Morlon, H; OConnor, TK; Bryant, JA; Charkoudian, LK; Docherty, KM; Jones, E; Kembel, SW; Green, JL; Bohannan, BJM	The Biogeography of Putative Microbial Antibiotic Production	PLOS ONE	Understanding patterns in the distribution and abundance of functional traits across a landscape is of fundamental importance to ecology. Mapping these distributions is particularly challenging for species-rich groups with sparse trait measurement coverage, such as flowering plants, insects, and microorganisms. Here, we use likelihood-based character reconstruction to infer and analyze the spatial distribution of unmeasured traits. We apply this framework to a microbial dataset comprised of 11,732 ketosynthase alpha gene sequences extracted from 144 soil samples from three continents to document the spatial distribution of putative microbial polyketide antibiotic production. Antibiotic production is a key competitive strategy for soil microbial survival and performance. Additionally, novel antibiotic discovery is highly relevant to human health, making natural antibiotic production by soil microorganisms a major target for bioprospecting. Our comparison of trait-based biogeographical patterns to patterns based on taxonomy and phylogeny is relevant to our basic understanding of microbial biogeography as well as the pressing need for new antibiotics.	2015	10	10.1371/journal.pone.0130659
Okie, JG; Van Horn, DJ; Storch, D; Barrett, JE; Gooseff, MN; Kopsova, L; Takacs-Vesbach, CD	Niche and metabolic principles explain patterns of diversity and distribution: theory and a case study with soil bacterial communities	PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY B-BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES	The causes of biodiversity patterns are controversial and elusive due to complex environmental variation, covarying changes in communities, and lack of baseline and null theories to differentiate straightforward causes from more complex mechanisms. To address these limitations, we developed general diversity theory integrating metabolic principles with niche-based community assembly. We evaluated this theory by investigating patterns in the diversity and distribution of soil bacteria taxa across four orders of magnitude variation in spatial scale on an Antarctic mountainside in low complexity, highly oligotrophic soils. Our theory predicts that lower temperatures should reduce taxon niche widths along environmental gradients due to decreasing growth rates, and the changing niche widths should lead to contrasting alpha- and beta-diversity patterns. In accord with the predictions, alpha-diversity, niche widths and occupancies decreased while beta-diversity increased with increasing elevation and decreasing temperature. The theory also successfully predicts a hump-shaped relationship between alpha-diversity and pH and a negative relationship between alpha-diversity and salinity. Thus, a few simple principles explained systematic microbial diversity variation along multiple gradients. Such general theory can be used to disentangle baseline effects from more complex effects of temperature and other variables on biodiversity patterns in a variety of ecosystems and organisms.	2015	282	10.1098/rspb.2014.2630
Bresciano, JC; Salvador, CA; Paz-y-Mino, C; Parody-Merino, AM; Bosch, J; Woodhams, DC	Variation in the Presence of Anti-Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis Bacteria of Amphibians Across Life Stages and Elevations in Ecuador	ECOHEALTH	Amphibian populations are decreasing worldwide due to a variety of factors. In South America, the chytrid fungus Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis (Bd) is linked to many population declines. The pathogenic effect of Bd on amphibians can be inhibited by specific bacteria present on host skin. This symbiotic association allows some amphibians to resist the development of the disease chytridiomycosis. Here, we aimed (1) to determine for the first time if specific anti-Bd bacteria are present on amphibians in the Andes of Ecuador, (2) to monitor anti-Bd bacteria across developmental stages in a focal amphibian, the Andean marsupial tree frog, Gastrotheca riobambae, that deposits larvae in aquatic habitats, and (3) to compare the Bd presence associated with host assemblages including 10 species at sites ranging in biogeography from Amazonian rainforest (450 masl) to Andes montane rainforest (3200 masl). We sampled and identified skin-associated bacteria of frogs in the field using swabs and a novel methodology of aerobic counting plates, and a combination of morphological, biochemical, and molecular identification techniques. The following anti-Bd bacteria were identified and found to be shared among several hosts at high-elevation sites where Bd was present at a prevalence of 32.5%: Janthinobacterium lividum, Pseudomonas fluorescens, and Serratia sp. Bd were detected in Gastrotheca spp. and not detected in the lowlands (sites below 1000 masl). In G. riobambae, recognized Bd-resistant bacteria start to be present at the metamorphic stage. Overall bacterial abundance was significantly higher post-metamorphosis and on species sampled at lower elevations. Further metagenomic studies are needed to evaluate the roles of host identity, life-history stage, and biogeography of the microbiota and their function in disease resistance.	2015	12	10.1007/s10393-015-1010-y
Tsiknia, M; Paranychianakis, NV; Varouchakis, EA; Nikolaidis, NP	Environmental drivers of the distribution of nitrogen functional genes at a watershed scale	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	To date only few studies have dealt with the biogeography of microbial communities at large spatial scales, despite the importance of such information to understand and simulate ecosystem functioning. Herein, we describe the biogeographic patterns of microorganisms involved in nitrogen (N)-cycling (diazotrophs, ammonia oxidizers, denitrifiers) as well as the environmental factors shaping these patterns across the Koiliaris Critical Zone Observatory, a typical Mediterranean watershed. Our findings revealed that a proportion of variance ranging from 40 to 80% of functional genes abundance could be explained by the environmental variables monitored, with pH, soil texture, total organic carbon and potential nitrification rate being identified as the most important drivers. The spatial autocorrelation of N-functional genes ranged from 0.2 to 6.2 km and prediction maps, generated by cokriging, revealed distinct patterns of functional genes. The inclusion of functional genes in statistical modeling substantially improved the proportion of variance explained by the models, a result possibly due to the strong relationships that were identified among microbial groups. Significant relationships were set between functional groups, which were further mediated by land use (natural versus agricultural lands). These relationships, in combination with the environmental variables, allow us to provide insights regarding the ecological preferences of N-functional groups and among them the recently identified clade II of nitrous oxide reducers.	2015	91	10.1093/femsec/fiv052
Segarra, KEA; Schubotz, F; Samarkin, V; Yoshinaga, MY; Hinrichs, KU; Joye, SB	High rates of anaerobic methane oxidation in freshwater wetlands reduce potential atmospheric methane emissions	NATURE COMMUNICATIONS	The role of anaerobic oxidation of methane (AOM) in wetlands, the largest natural source of atmospheric methane, is poorly constrained. Here we report rates of microbially mediated AOM (average rate = 20 nmol cm(-3) per day) in three freshwater wetlands that span multiple biogeographical provinces. The observed AOM rates rival those in marine environments. Most AOM activity may have been coupled to sulphate reduction, but other electron acceptors remain feasible. Lipid biomarkers typically associated with anaerobic methane-oxidizing archaea were more enriched in C-13 than those characteristic of marine systems, potentially due to distinct microbial metabolic pathways or dilution with heterotrophic isotope signals. On the basis of this extensive data set, AOM in freshwater wetlands may consume 200 Tg methane per year, reducing their potential methane emissions by over 50%. These findings challenge precepts surrounding wetland carbon cycling and demonstrate the environmental relevance of an anaerobic methane sink in ecosystems traditionally considered strong methane sources.	2015	6	10.1038/ncomms8477
Constancias, F; Terrat, S; Saby, NPA; Horrigue, W; Villerd, J; Guillemin, JP; Biju-Duval, L; Nowak, V; Dequiedt, S; Ranjard, L; Prevost-Boure, NC	Mapping and determinism of soil microbial community distribution across an agricultural landscape	MICROBIOLOGYOPEN	Despite the relevance of landscape, regarding the spatial patterning of microbial communities and the relative influence of environmental parameters versus human activities, few investigations have been conducted at this scale. Here, we used a systematic grid to characterize the distribution of soil microbial communities at 278 sites across a monitored agricultural landscape of 13km(2). Molecular microbial biomass was estimated by soil DNA recovery and bacterial diversity by 16S rRNA gene pyrosequencing. Geostatistics provided the first maps of microbial community at this scale and revealed a heterogeneous but spatially structured distribution of microbial biomass and diversity with patches of several hundreds of meters. Variance partitioning revealed that both microbial abundance and bacterial diversity distribution were highly dependent of soil properties and land use (total variance explained ranged between 55% and 78%). Microbial biomass and bacterial richness distributions were mainly explained by soil pH and texture whereas bacterial evenness distribution was mainly related to land management. Bacterial diversity (richness, evenness, and Shannon index) was positively influenced by cropping intensity and especially by soil tillage, resulting in spots of low microbial diversity in soils under forest management. Spatial descriptors also explained a small but significant portion of the microbial distribution suggesting that landscape configuration also shapes microbial biomass and bacterial diversity.	2015	4	10.1002/mbo3.255
Constancias, F; Saby, NPA; Terrat, S; Dequiedt, S; Horrigue, W; Nowak, V; Guillemin, JP; Biju-Duval, L; Prevost-Boure, N; Ranjard, L	Contrasting spatial patterns and ecological attributes of soil bacterial and archaeal taxa across a landscape	MICROBIOLOGYOPEN	Even though recent studies have clarified the influence and hierarchy of environmental filters on bacterial community structure, those constraining bacterial populations variations remain unclear. In consequence, our ability to understand to ecological attributes of soil bacteria and to predict microbial community response to environmental stress is therefore limited. Here, we characterized the bacterial community composition and the various bacterial taxonomic groups constituting the community across an agricultural landscape of 12km(2), by using a 215x215m systematic grid representing 278 sites to precisely decipher their spatial distribution and drivers at this scale. The bacterial and Archaeal community composition was characterized by applying 16S rRNA gene pyrosequencing directly to soil DNA from samples. Geostatistics tools were used to reveal the heterogeneous distribution of bacterial composition at this scale. Soil physical parameters and land management explained a significant amount of variation, suggesting that environmental selection is the major process shaping bacterial composition. All taxa systematically displayed also a heterogeneous and particular distribution patterns. Different relative influences of soil characteristics, land use and space were observed, depending on the taxa, implying that selection and spatial processes might be differentially but not exclusively involved for each bacterial phylum. Soil pH was a major factor determining the distribution of most of the bacterial taxa and especially the most important factor explaining the spatial patterns of -Proteobacteria and Planctomycetes. Soil texture, organic carbon content and quality were more specific to a few number of taxa (e.g., -Proteobacteria and Chlorobi). Land management also influenced the distribution of bacterial taxa across the landscape and revealed different type of response to cropping intensity (positive, negative, neutral or hump-backed relationships) according to phyla. Altogether, this study provided valuable clues about the ecological behavior of soil bacterial and archaeal taxa at an agricultural landscape scale and could be useful for developing sustainable strategies of land management.	2015	4	10.1002/mbo3.256
Overmann, J	Significance and future role of microbial resource centers	SYSTEMATIC AND APPLIED MICROBIOLOGY	Isolated strains constitute the basis for microbial systematics as well as for numerous applications in biotechnology, pharmacology, agronomy and public health. Microbial resource centers (mBRCs) are institutions capable of safeguarding, maintaining and distributing authenticated microbial strains, their genomic DNA and the associated data in a quality-controlled manner. They allow the deposit and distribution of type strains that form the basis of microbial taxonomy. Beyond taxonomy, deposited strains enable follow-up scientific studies and lead to a significantly improved recognition of scientific work. Considerable added value is generated through the labor-intensive steps of enrichment, enrichment screening, isolation, characterization, conservation and long-term storage of microbial strains. Here, a microbial strain is calculated to attain a value of 9836 Euro through its isolation and another 918 Euro through its deposit, adding up to a total value of 10,754 Euro. mBRCs provide a highly cost-effective way of preserving this value of microbial strains. A considerable future challenge of mBRCs will be to secure a larger fraction of strains that are isolated in research labs worldwide. mBRCs provide the expert knowledge and the cultivation and preservation skills crucial to access the large fraction of uncharted microbial diversity. mBRCs also provide the expertise and support the depositors of microbial resources to meet new legal challenges after implementation of the Nagoya Protocol. A suitable roadmap is described that allows mBRCs to meet the new demands emerging in science, technology and economy through an integration of novel technology, expansion of their duties and establishing an improved global mBRC network. (C) 2015 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.	2015	38	10.1016/j.syapm.2015.02.008
Sole, R	Bioengineering the biosphere?	ECOLOGICAL COMPLEXITY	Our planet is experiencing an accelerated process of change associated to a variety of anthropogenic phenomena. The future of this transformation is uncertain, but there is general agreement about its negative unfolding that might threaten our own survival. Furthermore, the pace of the expected changes is likely to be abrupt: catastrophic shifts might be the most likely outcome of this ongoing, apparently slow process. Although different strategies for geo-engineering the planet have been advanced, none seem likely to safely revert the large-scale problems associated to carbon dioxide accumulation or ecosystem degradation. An alternative possibility considered here is inspired in the rapidly growing potential for engineering living systems. It would involve designing synthetic organisms capable of reproducing and expanding to large geographic scales with the goal of achieving a long-term or a transient restoration of ecosystem-level homeostasis. Such a regional or even planetary-scale engineering would have to deal with the complexity of our biosphere. It will require not only a proper design of organisms but also understanding their place within ecological networks and their evolvability. This is a likely future scenario that will require integration of ideas coming from currently weakly connected domains, including synthetic biology, ecological and genome engineering, evolutionary theory, climate science, biogeography and invasion ecology, among others. (C) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2015	22	10.1016/j.ecocom.2015.01.005
Yang, AJ; Zhang, XL; Agogue, H; Dupuy, C; Gong, J	Contrasting spatiotemporal patterns and environmental drivers of diversity and community structure of ammonia oxidizers, denitrifiers, and anammox bacteria in sediments of estuarine tidal flats	ANNALS OF MICROBIOLOGY	The spatial and temporal patterns of diversity, community structure, and their drivers are fundamental issues in microbial ecology. This study aimed to investigate the relative importance of spatial and seasonal controls on the distribution of nitrogen cycling microbes in sediments of estuarine tidal flats, and to test the hypothesis that metals impact the distribution of nitrogen-cycling microbes in the coastal system. Two layers of sediment samples were collected from three estuarine tidal flats of Laizhou Bay in 2010 winter and 2011 summer. The alpha diversities (Shannon and Simpson indices) and community structure of ammonia oxidizing bacteria (AOB) and archaea (AOA), denitrifier and anammox bacteria (AMB) were revealed using denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis and clone library analysis of amoA, nosZ and 16S rRNA gene markers. We found that both AOB and AMB exhibited distinct seasonal patterns in either alpha diversity or community turnover; AOA had different alpha diversities in two layers, but neither spatial nor seasonal patterns were found for their community turnover. However, no distinct spatiotemporal pattern was observed for either diversity or community composition of nosZ-type denitrifiers. For correlations between alpha diversities and environmental factors, significant correlations were found between AOB and ammonium, temperature and As, between denitrifiers and nitrite, salinity and Pb, and between AMB and Pb, ratio of organic carbon to nitrogen, ammonium, pH and dissolved oxygen. Salinity and sediment grain size were the most important factors shaping AOB and AOA communities, respectively; whereas AMB community structure was mostly determined by temperature, dissolved oxygen, pH and heavy metals As and Cd. These results stress that ammonia oxidizers, denitrifiers and anammox bacteria have generally different distributional patterns across time and space, and heavy metals might have contributed to their differentiated distributions in coastal sediments.	2015	65	10.1007/s13213-014-0929-5
Bier, RL; Voss, KA; Bernhardt, ES	Bacterial community responses to a gradient of alkaline mountaintop mine drainage in Central Appalachian streams	ISME JOURNAL	Microbial community composition and diversity change along chemical gradients, leading to the expectation that microbial community information might provide new gradient characterizations. Here we examine stream bacteria composition and diversity along a strong chemical gradient in Central Appalachian streams. Coal mining in the region generates alkaline mine drainage (AlkMD), causing dramatic increases in conductivity, alkalinity, sulfate and metals sufficient to degrade stream macrobiota communities throughout the ecoregion. In this study, we examined the relationship between water and biofilm chemistry and biofilm bacteria taxonomic composition in streams where active and reclaimed surface coal mines occupied 0-96% of watershed surface area. We incubated wood veneers in each stream site for 4 months to develop biofilms on similar substrates. We sampled water chemistry at the time of deployment and collection, and after 1 month. Following incubation, we collected biofilms for microbial and chemical characterization. Microbial composition was determined by pyrosequencing 16S rRNA amplicons. Biofilm subsamples were analyzed by inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry to determine metal concentrations. Our results show that microbial community composition differed significantly between AlkMD-exposed and AlkMD-unexposed sites, and that compositional dissimilarity increased with AlkMD loading. Diversity was not correlated with pH or extent of upstream mining, but instead correlated with biofilm concentrations of Cd, Mn, Zn and Ni. Within mined sites, the extent of upstream mining was negatively correlated with taxonomic richness. Despite major compositional shifts, functional capacity predicted with PICRUSt (Phylogenetic Investigation of Communities by Reconstruction of Unobserved States) correlated with mining in only 3 of 43 level-2 KEGG (Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes) Orthology groups.	2015	9	10.1038/ismej.2014.222
