AU	TI	SO	AB	PY	VL	DI
Geisen, S; Mitchell, EAD; Wilkinson, DM; Adl, S; Bonkowski, M; Brown, MW; Fiore-Donno, AM; Heger, TJ; Jassey, VEJ; Krashevska, V; Lahr, DJG; Marcisz, K; Mulot, M; Payne, R; Singer, D; Anderson, OR; Charman, DJ; Ekelund, F; Griffiths, BS; Ronn, R; Smirnov, A; Bass, D; Belbahri, L; Berney, C; Blandenier, Q; Chatzinotas, A; Clarholm, M; Dunthorn, M; Feest, A; Fernandez, LD; Foissner, W; Fournier, B; Gentekaki, E; Hajek, M; Helder, J; Jousset, A; Koller, R; Kumar, S; La Terza, A; Lamentowicz, M; Mazei, Y; Santos, SS; Seppey, CVW; Spiegel, FW; Walochnik, J; Winding, A; Lara, E	Soil protistology protistology rebooted: 30 fundamental questions to start with	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	Protists are the most diverse eukaryotes. These microbes are keystone organisms of soil ecosystems and regulate essential processes of soil fertility such as nutrient cycling and plant growth. Despite this, protists have received little scientific attention, especially compared to bacteria, fungi and nematodes in soil studies. Recent methodological advances, particularly in molecular biology techniques, have made the study of soil protists more accessible, and have created a resurgence of interest in soil protistology. This ongoing revolution now enables comprehensive investigations of the structure and functioning of soil protist communities, paving the way to a new era in soil biology. Instead of providing an exhaustive review, we provide a synthesis of research gaps that should be prioritized in future studies of soil protistology to guide this rapidly developing research area. Based on a synthesis of expert opinion we propose 30 key questions covering a broad range of topics including evolution, phylogenetics, functional ecology, macroecology, paleoecology, and methodologies. These questions highlight a diversity of topics that will establish soil protistology as a hub discipline connecting different fundamental and applied fields such as ecology, biogeography, evolution, plant-microbe interactions, agronomy, and conservation biology. We are convinced that soil protistology has the potential to be one of the most exciting frontiers in biology. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2017	111	10.1016/j.soilbio.2017.04.001
Tucker, CM; Cadotte, MW; Carvalho, SB; Davies, TJ; Ferrier, S; Fritz, SA; Grenyer, R; Helmus, MR; Jin, LS; Mooers, AO; Pavoine, S; Purschke, O; Redding, DW; Rosauer, DF; Winter, M; Mazel, F	A guide to phylogenetic metrics for conservation, community ecology and macroecology	BIOLOGICAL REVIEWS	The use of phylogenies in ecology is increasingly common and has broadened our understanding of biological diversity. Ecological sub-disciplines, particularly conservation, community ecology and macroecology, all recognize the value of evolutionary relationships but the resulting development of phylogenetic approaches has led to a proliferation of phylogenetic diversity metrics. The use of many metrics across the sub-disciplines hampers potential meta-analyses, syntheses, and generalizations of existing results. Further, there is no guide for selecting the appropriatemetric for a given question, and different metrics are frequently used to address similar questions. To improve the choice, application, and interpretation of phylo-diversity metrics, we organize existing metrics by expanding on a unifying framework for phylogenetic information. Generally, questions about phylogenetic relationships within or between assemblages tend to ask three types of question: how much; how different; or how regular? We show that these questions reflect three dimensions of a phylogenetic tree: richness, divergence, and regularity. We classify 70 existing phylo-diversity metrics based on their mathematical form within these three dimensions and identify anchor representatives: for alpha-diversity metrics these are PD (Faiths phylogenetic diversity), MPD (mean pairwise distance), and VPD (variation of pairwise distances). By analysing mathematical formulae and using simulations, we use this framework to identify metrics that mix dimensions, and we provide a guide to choosing and using the most appropriate metrics. We show that metric choice requires connecting the research question with the correct dimension of the framework and that there are logical approaches to selecting and interpreting metrics. The guide outlined herein will help researchers navigate the current jungle of indices.	2017	92	10.1111/brv.12252
Vanhove, M; Beale, MA; Rhodes, J; Chanda, D; Lakhi, S; Kwenda, G; Molloy, S; Karunaharan, N; Stone, N; Harrison, TS; Bicanic, T; Fisher, MC	Genomic epidemiology of Cryptococcus yeasts identifies adaptation to environmental niches underpinning infection across an African HIV/AIDS cohort	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	Emerging infections caused by fungi have become a widely recognized global phenomenon and are causing an increasing burden of disease. Genomic techniques are providing new insights into the structure of fungal populations, revealing hitherto undescribed fine-scale adaptations to environments and hosts that govern their emergence as infections. Cryptococcal meningitis is a neglected tropical disease that is responsible for a large proportion of AIDS-related deaths across Africa; however, the ecological determinants that underlie a patients risk of infection remain largely unexplored. Here, we use genome sequencing and ecological genomics to decipher the evolutionary ecology of the aetiological agents of cryptococcal meningitis, Cryptococcus neoformans and Cryptococcus gattii, across the central African country of Zambia. We show that the occurrence of these two pathogens is differentially associated with biotic (macroecological) and abiotic (physical) factors across two key African ecoregions, Central Miombo woodlands and Zambezi Mopane woodlands. We show that speciation of Cryptococcus has resulted in adaptation to occupy different ecological niches, with C.neoformans found to occupy Zambezi Mopane woodlands and C.gattii primarily recovered from Central Miombo woodlands. Genome sequencing shows that C.neoformans causes 95% of human infections in this region, of which over three-quarters belonged to the globalized lineage VNI. We show that VNI infections are largely associated with urbanized populations in Zambia. Conversely, the majority of C.neoformans isolates recovered in the environment belong to the genetically diverse African-endemic lineage VNB, and we show hitherto unmapped levels of genomic diversity within this lineage. Our results reveal the complex evolutionary ecology that underpins the reservoirs of infection for this, and likely other, deadly pathogenic fungi.	2017	26	10.1111/mec.13891
Lennon, JT; Locey, KJ	Macroecology for microbiology	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY REPORTS		2017	9	10.1111/1758-2229.12512
Haggerty, JM; Dinsdale, EA	Distinct biogeographical patterns of marine bacterial taxonomy and functional genes	GLOBAL ECOLOGY AND BIOGEOGRAPHY	AimWhile paradigms of macroecology are challenged by the high rates of reproduction, dispersal and horizontal gene exchange of bacterial communities, environmental DNA sequencing makes community profiles accessible. We test fundamental hypotheses of macroecological theories, showing that both taxonomic and functional classifications have distinct biogeographical variation across distance and environments depending on trophic composition. LocationStudies spanning the global oceans. MethodsTaxonomic and functional profiles were obtained from metagenomes and were compared across oceanographic regions and tested for patterns of co-occurrence. The influences of sampling method (filter size), environmental variables and geographical distribution were compared with distance-based linear models to test predictors of taxonomic and functional composition. Macroecological drivers were compared with bacterial community structure to test four biogeographical hypotheses: (1) no biogeographical patterns, (2) community structure reflects environmental dissimilarity, (3) community structure reflects distance, (4) community structure reflects environment and distance. ResultsBacterial families were clustered into four trophic groups - phototrophic, oligotrophic, eutrophic and copiotrophic - by changes in abundance across oceanographic regions and co-occurrence with core functions. Changes in community composition were best modelled by longitude for free-living communities and dissolved oxygen for mixed communities of free-living and particle-associated bacteria. Both microhabitat and community assignment had an impact on biogeographical patterns, with taxonomic compositions following our hypotheses 2 and 4 and functional gene compositions following hypotheses 3 and 4. Main conclusionsWe described four trophic groups adding to the current dichotomy of the classification of marine bacteria as oligotrophic or copiotrophic. Taxonomic composition of mixed communities reflected environmental differences but not geographical distance, whereas functional gene composition in free-living communities was independent of environmental dissimilarity and reflected geographical distance. Patterns of biogeography in bacterial communities differed depending on the description of taxa or function. Therefore, we developed a new paradigm for bacterial ecology which shows that some aspects of bacterial evolution depend on trophic complexity, history and current environmental conditions.	2017	26	10.1111/geb.12528
Stegen, JC; Hurlbert, AH; Bond-Lamberty, B; Chen, XY; Anderson, CG; Chu, RK; Dini-Andreote, F; Fansler, SJ; Hess, NJ; Tfaily, M	Aligning the Measurement of Microbial Diversity with Macroecological Theory	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	The number of microbial operational taxonomic units (OTUs) within a community is akin to species richness within plant/animal (macrobial) systems. A large literature documents OTU richness patterns, drawing comparisons to macrobial theory. There is, however, an unrecognized fundamental disconnect between OTU richness and macrobial theory: OTU richness is commonly estimated on a per-individual basis, while macrobial richness is estimated per-area. Furthermore, the range or extent of sampled environmental conditions can strongly influence a studys outcomes and conclusions, but this is not commonly addressed when studying OTU richness. Here we (i) propose a new sampling approach that estimates OTU richness per-mass of soil, which results in strong support for species energy theory, (ii) use data reduction to show how support for niche conservatism emerges when sampling across a restricted range of environmental conditions, and (iii) show how additional insights into drivers of OTU richness can be generated by combining different sampling methods while simultaneously considering patterns that emerge by restricting the range of environmental conditions. We propose that a more rigorous connection between microbial ecology and macrobial theory can be facilitated by exploring how changes in OTU richness units and environmental extent influence outcomes of data analysis. While fundamental differences between microbial and macrobial systems persist (e.g., species concepts), we suggest that closer attention to units and scale provide tangible and immediate improvements to our understanding of the processes governing OTU richness and how those processes relate to drivers of macrobial species richness.	2016	7	10.3389/fmicb.2016.01487
Teittinen, A; Kallajoki, L; Meier, S; Stigzelius, T; Soininen, J	The roles of elevation and local environmental factors as drivers of diatom diversity in subarctic streams	FRESHWATER BIOLOGY	High latitude and altitude freshwater systems are highly sensitive to the effects of global warming and associated environmental changes. Diatoms are widely used as sentinels of environmental change, yet knowledge of diatom community patterns in high latitude and altitude streams remains limited. The aim of this study was to examine alpha and beta diversity of diatoms in subarctic streams in Finland and Norway, and to determine the importance of local environmental factors and elevation in shaping their community patterns. We also aimed at testing, for the first time, whether microbes conform to Rapoports elevational rule, which states that species occurring at higher elevations have generally larger elevational ranges than species at lower elevations. Three streams (44 sites in total) with an altitudinal gradient of 21-877m a.s.l. were sampled. Generalized linear models, hierarchical partitioning, and a boosted regression tree method were used to identify drivers of diatom species richness. We ran Mantel tests, and calculated initial similarities and elevational halving distances to examine beta diversity. There were no apparent richness-elevation relationships within streams. Across all study streams, the water depth was the most important factor for richness, with additional influences by stone size, conductivity, pH and elevation. Diatoms in subarctic streams did not conform to Rapoports elevational rule. Community similarity decreased significantly with elevational distance while distance decay was weaker with environmental distance. Our results suggest that diatom alpha and beta diversity along stream elevational gradients are shaped by interacting local environmental factors such as water depth and substrate size, indicating vulnerability of diatoms to physical disturbances, and regional factors such as dispersal and geographical variables. Diatom diversity patterns do not seem to concur with patterns often observed for larger organisms as no consistent elevational patterns in richness or range sizes were found.	2016	61	10.1111/fwb.12791
Tripp, EA; Lendemer, JC; Barberan, A; Dunn, RR; Fierer, N	Biodiversity gradients in obligate symbiotic organisms: exploring the diversity and traits of lichen propagules across the United States	JOURNAL OF BIOGEOGRAPHY	AimLarge-scale distributions of plants and animals have been studied extensively and form the foundation for core concepts and paradigms in biogeography and macroecology. Much less attention has been given to other groups of organisms, particularly obligate symbiotic organisms. We present the first quantitative assessment of how spatial and environmental variables shape the abundance and distribution of obligate symbiotic organisms across nearly an entire subcontinent, using lichen propagules as an example. LocationThe contiguous United States (excluding Alaska and Hawaii). MethodsWe use DNA sequence-based analyses of lichen reproductive propagules from settled dust samples collected from nearly 1300 home exteriors to reconstruct biogeographical correlates of lichen taxonomic and functional diversity. ResultsContrary to expectations, we found a weak but significant reverse latitudinal gradient in lichen propagule diversity. Diversity was not impacted by urbanization or human population density. We show that propagules of asexually reproducing species have wider geographical ranges than propagules from sexually reproducing species, likely reflecting the lichenized nature of asexual spores that disperse both the mycobiont and photobiont versus non-lichenized sexual spores, which disperse only the mycobiont. Main ConclusionsOur findings of a reverse latitudinal gradient and a relative lack of impact of urbanization on lichen propagules and/or lichen-forming fungal spores suggest that core concepts in biogeography are better informed via consideration of additional patterns from other, less well studied groups of organisms.	2016	43	10.1111/jbi.12746
Dudaniec, RY; Tesson, SVM	Applying landscape genetics to the microbial world	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	Landscape genetics, which explicitly quantifies landscape effects on gene flow and adaptation, has largely focused on macroorganisms, with little attention given to microorganisms. This is despite overwhelming evidence that microorganisms exhibit spatial genetic structuring in relation to environmental variables. The increasing accessibility of genomic data has opened up the opportunity for landscape genetics to embrace the world of microorganisms, which may be thought of as the invisible regulators of the macroecological world. Recent developments in bioinformatics and increased data accessibility have accelerated our ability to identify microbial taxa and characterize their genetic diversity. However, the influence of the landscape matrix and dynamic environmental factors on microorganism genetic dispersal and adaptation has been little explored. Also, because many microorganisms coinhabit or codisperse with macroorganisms, landscape genomic approaches may improve insights into how micro-and macroorganisms reciprocally interact to create spatial genetic structure. Conducting landscape genetic analyses on microorganisms requires that we accommodate shifts in spatial and temporal scales, presenting new conceptual and methodological challenges not yet explored in macro-landscape genetics. We argue that there is much value to be gained for microbial ecologists from embracing landscape genetic approaches. We provide a case for integrating landscape genetic methods into microecological studies and discuss specific considerations associated with the novel challenges this brings. We anticipate that microorganism landscape genetic studies will provide new insights into both micro-and macroecological processes and expand our knowledge of species distributions, adaptive mechanisms and species interactions in changing environments.	2016	25	10.1111/mec.13691
Gallardo, VA; Fonseca, A; Espinoza, C; Ruiz-Tagle, N; Musleh, S	Bacteria of the Humboldt sulfuretum comply with unifying macroecological principles	MARINE BIODIVERSITY	The next generation sequencing (NGS) tools available today, i.e., 454 Roche pyrosequencing (Shendure and Ji 2008) allow metagenomic studies on the composition and structure of microbial communities in a way that it was not possible before (Handelsman 2004). In the field of macroecology, early studies showed that fresh water and marine benthic invertebrate communities varied in their structure, i. e., number of species (species richness) and relative abundance among species (dominance or lack of it) (Thienemann 1939; Sanders 1968). From their work, we here construct the Thienemann-Sanders time-stability (TS2) hypothesis which predicts that the older and more stable the habitat the higher the species richness and diversity with a lack of dominance by any member in the community. The contrary would be the case in younger and/or drastically varying habitats. The former conditions would render a biologically accommodated community while the latter a physically controlled community. Ward et al. (1998) suggested that: By adopting the view of macroecologists and macroevolutionary biologists as they interpret their findings, microbial ecologists can see if unifying principles control the diversity, ecology, and evolution of all organisms, large and small. The question thus is: Does the TS2 hypothesis fit prokaryotic communities? As a test, here we show the results of the analysis of relative operational taxonomic unit (OTU=species proxies) abundance data of benthic bacteria from the Humboldt Sulfuretum (HS). The analysis disclosed high values of species richness, a lack of dominants, high information diversity indices, and steep rarefaction curves, all features pointing to an evolutionarily mature, biologically accommodated community consistent with the TS2 hypothesis. Thus, this study suggests that bacterial communities of old environments such as a sulfuretum comply with macroecologically-derived principles.	2016	46	10.1007/s12526-015-0377-x
Locey, KJ; Lennon, JT	Scaling laws predict global microbial diversity	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	Scaling laws underpin unifying theories of biodiversity and are among the most predictively powerful relationships in biology. However, scaling laws developed for plants and animals often go untested or fail to hold for microorganisms. As a result, it is unclear whether scaling laws of biodiversity will span evolutionarily distant domains of life that encompass all modes of metabolism and scales of abundance. Using a global-scale compilation of similar to 35,000 sites and similar to 5.6.10(6) species, including the largest ever inventory of high-throughput molecular data and one of the largest compilations of plant and animal community data, we show similar rates of scaling in commonness and rarity across microorganisms and macroscopic plants and animals. We document a universal dominance scaling law that holds across 30 orders of magnitude, an unprecedented expanse that predicts the abundance of dominant ocean bacteria. In combining this scaling law with the lognormal model of biodiversity, we predict that Earth is home to upward of 1 trillion (10(12)) microbial species. Microbial biodiversity seems greater than ever anticipated yet predictable from the smallest to the largest microbiome.	2016	113	10.1073/pnas.1521291113
Olesen, SW; Vora, S; Techtmann, SM; Fortney, JL; Bastidas-Oyanedel, JR; Rodriguez, J; Hazen, TC; Alm, EJ	A Novel Analysis Method for Paired-Sample Microbial Ecology Experiments	PLOS ONE	Many microbial ecology experiments use sequencing data to measure a communitys response to an experimental treatment. In a common experimental design, two units, one control and one experimental, are sampled before and after the treatment is applied to the experimental unit. The four resulting samples contain information about the dynamics of organisms that respond to the treatment, but there are no analytical methods designed to extract exactly this type of information from this configuration of samples. Here we present an analytical method specifically designed to visualize and generate hypotheses about microbial community dynamics in experiments that have paired samples and few or no replicates. The method is based on the Poisson lognormal distribution, long studied in macroecology, which we found accurately models the abundance distribution of taxa counts from 16S rRNA surveys. To demonstrate the methods validity and potential, we analyzed an experiment that measured the effect of crude oil on ocean microbial communities in microcosm. Our method identified known oil degraders as well as two clades, Maricurvus and Rhodobacteraceae, that responded to amendment with oil but do not include known oil degraders. Our approach is sensitive to organisms that increased in abundance only in the experimental unit but less sensitive to organisms that increased in both control and experimental units, thus mitigating the role of bottle effects.	2016	11	10.1371/journal.pone.0154804
Danovaro, R; Molari, M; Corinaldesi, C; DellAnno, A	Macroecological drivers of archaea and bacteria in benthic deep-sea ecosystems	SCIENCE ADVANCES	Bacteria and archaea dominate the biomass of benthic deep-sea ecosystems at all latitudes, playing a crucial role in global biogeochemical cycles, but their macroscale patterns and macroecological drivers are still largely unknown. We show the results of the most extensive field study conducted so far to investigate patterns and drivers of the distribution and structure of benthic prokaryote assemblages from 228 samples collected at latitudes comprising 34 degrees N to 79 degrees N, and from ca. 400- to 5570-m depth. We provide evidence that, in deep-sea ecosystems, benthic bacterial and archaeal abundances significantly increase from middle to high latitudes, with patterns more pronounced for archaea, and particularly for Marine Group I Thaumarchaeota. Our results also reveal that different microbial components show varying sensitivities to changes in temperature conditions and food supply. We conclude that climate change will primarily affect deep-sea benthic archaea, with important consequences on global biogeochemical cycles, particularly at high latitudes.	2016	2	10.1126/sciadv.1500961
Rysanek, D; Elster, J; Kovacik, L; Skaloud, P	Diversity and dispersal capacities of a terrestrial algal genus Klebsormidium (Streptophyta) in polar regions	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	The distribution of microbial eukaryotes (protists) has been frequently discussed during the last two decades. The ubiquity hypothesis assumes the lack of latitudinal gradients in protist diversity due to their unlimited global dispersal. In this study, we examined the diversity and distribution of the very common, globally distributed green algal genus Klebsormidium across climatic zones, focusing on the polar regions. We tested whether (i) there is comparable diversity among the polar and temperate regions, and (ii) whether a spatial genetic differentiation occurs at the global scale. We collected a total of 58 Arctic, Antarctic and temperate strains, and genetically characterized them by sequencing the rbcL gene and two highly variable chloroplast markers. Our analyses revealed the presence of two different distribution patterns which are supposed to characterize both macroorganisms and protists. On the one hand, we demonstrated unlimited dispersal and intensive gene flow within one of the inferred lineages (superclade B). On the other hand, the majority of Klebsormidium clades showed rather a limited distribution. In addition, we detected a significant decrease of species richness towards the poles i. e. the macroecological pattern typical for macroorganisms. Species within a single protist genus may thus exhibit highly contrasting distribution patterns, based on their dispersal capabilities, which are usually shaped by both intrinsic and extrinsic factors.	2016	92	10.1093/femsec/fiw039
Ma, ZS	Power law analysis of the human microbiome	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	Taylors (1961, Nature, 189: 732) power law, a power function (V = am(b)) describing the scaling relationship between the mean and variance of population abundances of organisms, has been found to govern the population abundance distributions of single species in both space and time in macroecology. It is regarded as one of few generalities in ecology, and its parameter b has been widely applied to characterize spatial aggregation (i.e. heterogeneity) and temporal stability of single-species populations. Here, we test its applicability to bacterial populations in the human microbiome using extensive data sets generated by the US-NIH Human Microbiome Project (HMP). We further propose extending Taylors power law from the population to the community level, and accordingly introduce four types of power-law extensions (PLEs): type I PLE for community spatial aggregation (heterogeneity), type II PLE for community temporal aggregation (stability), type III PLE for mixed-species population spatial aggregation (heterogeneity) and type IV PLE for mixed-species population temporal aggregation (stability). Our results show that fittings to the four PLEs with HMP data were statistically extremely significant and their parameters are ecologically sound, hence confirming the validity of the power law at both the population and community levels. These findings not only provide a powerful tool to characterize the aggregations of population and community in both time and space, offering important insights into community heterogeneity in space and/or stability in time, but also underscore the three general properties of power laws (scale invariance, no average and universality) and their specific manifestations in our four PLEs.	2015	24	10.1111/mec.13394
Garcia, FC; Alonso-Saez, L; Moran, XAG; Lopez-Urrutia, A	Seasonality in molecular and cytometric diversity of marine bacterioplankton: the re-shuffling of bacterial taxa by vertical mixing	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	The cytometric diversity of phytoplankton communities has been studied based on single-cell properties, but the applicability of this method to characterize bacterioplankton has been unexplored. Here, we analysed seasonal changes in cytometric diversity of marine bacterioplankton along a decadal time-series at three coastal stations in the Southern Bay of Biscay. Shannon-Weaver diversity estimates and Bray-Curtis similarities obtained by cytometric and molecular (16S rRNA tag sequencing) methods were significantly correlated in samples from a 3.5 year monthly time-series. Both methods showed a consistent cyclical pattern in the diversity of surface bacterial communities with maximal values in winter. The analysis of the highly resolved flow cytometry time-series across the vertical profile showed that water column mixing was a key factor explaining the seasonal changes in bacterial composition and the winter increase in bacterial diversity in coastal surface waters. Due to its low cost and short processing time as compared with genetic methods, the cytometric diversity approach represents a useful complementary tool in the macroecology of aquatic microbes.	2015	17	10.1111/1462-2920.12984
Sintes, E; De Corte, D; Ouillon, N; Herndl, GJ	Macroecological patterns of archaeal ammonia oxidizers in the Atlantic Ocean	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	Macroecological patterns are found in animals and plants, but also in micro-organisms. Macroecological and biogeographic distribution patterns in marine Archaea, however, have not been studied yet. Ammonia-oxidizing Archaea (AOA) show a bipolar distribution (i.e. similar communities in the northernmost and the southernmost locations, separated by distinct communities in the tropical and gyral regions) throughout the Atlantic, detectable from epipelagic to upper bathypelagic layers (<2000m depth). This tentatively suggests an influence of the epipelagic conditions of organic matter production on bathypelagic AOA communities. The AOA communities below 2000m depth showed a less pronounced biogeographic distribution pattern than the upper 2000m water column. Overall, AOA in the surface and deep Atlantic waters exhibit distance-decay relationships and follow the Rapoport rule in a similar way as bacterial communities and macroorganisms. This indicates a major role of environmental conditions in shaping the community composition and assembly (species sorting) and no, or only weak limits for dispersal in the oceanic thaumarchaeal communities. However, there is indication of a different strength of these relationships between AOA and Bacteria, linked to the intrinsic differences between these two domains.	2015	24	10.1111/mec.13365
Harte, J; Rominger, A; Zhang, WY	Integrating macroecological metrics and community taxonomic structure	ECOLOGY LETTERS	We extend macroecological theory based on the maximum entropy principle from species level to higher taxonomic categories, thereby predicting distributions of species richness across genera or families and the dependence of abundance and metabolic rate distributions on taxonomic tree structure. Predictions agree with qualitative trends reported in studies on hyper-dominance in tropical tree species, mammalian body size distributions and patterns of rarity in worldwide plant communities. Predicted distributions of species richness over genera or families for birds, arthropods, plants and microorganisms are in excellent agreement with data. Data from an intertidal invertebrate community, but not from a dispersal-limited forest, are in excellent agreement with a predicted new relationship between body size and abundance. Successful predictions of the original species level theory are unmodified in the extended theory. By integrating macroecology and taxonomic tree structure, maximum entropy may point the way towards a unified framework for understanding phylogenetic community structure.	2015	18	10.1111/ele.12489
Haagensen, JAJ; Hansen, SK; Christensen, BB; Pamp, SJ; Molin, S	Development of Spatial Distribution Patterns by Biofilm Cells	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Confined spatial patterns of microbial distribution are prevalent in nature, such as in microbial mats, soil communities, and water stream biofilms. The symbiotic two-species consortium of Pseudomonas putida and Acinetobacter sp. strain C6, originally isolated from a creosote-polluted aquifer, has evolved a distinct spatial organization in the laboratory that is characterized by an increased fitness and productivity. In this consortium, P. putida is reliant on microcolonies formed by Acinetobacter sp. C6, to which it attaches. Here we describe the processes that lead to the microcolony pattern by Acinetobacter sp. C6. Ecological spatial pattern analyses revealed that the microcolonies were not entirely randomly distributed and instead were arranged in a uniform pattern. Detailed time-lapse confocal microscopy at the single-cell level demonstrated that the spatial pattern was the result of an intriguing self-organization: small multicellular clusters moved along the surface to fuse with one another to form microcolonies. This active distribution capability was dependent on environmental factors (carbon source and oxygen) and historical contingency (formation of phenotypic variants). The findings of this study are discussed in the context of species distribution patterns observed in macroecology, and we summarize observations about the processes involved in coadaptation between P. putida and Acinetobacter sp. C6. Our results contribute to an understanding of spatial species distribution patterns as they are observed in nature, as well as the ecology of engineered communities that have the potential for enhanced and sustainable bioprocessing capacity.	2015	81	10.1128/AEM.01614-15
Sanchez-Ramirez, S; Etienne, RS; Moncalvo, JM	High speciation rate at temperate latitudes explains unusual diversity gradients in a clade of ectomycorrhizal fungi	EVOLUTION	Understanding the patterns of biodiversity through time and space is a challenging task. However, phylogeny-based macroevolutionary models allow us to account and measure many of the processes responsible for diversity buildup, namely speciation and extinction. The general latitudinal diversity gradient (LDG) is a well-recognized pattern describing a decline in species richness from the equator polewards. Recent macroecological studies in ectomycorrhizal (EM) fungi have shown that their LDG is shifted, peaking at temperate rather than tropical latitudes. Here we investigate this phenomenon from a macroevolutionary perspective, focusing on a well-sampled group of edible EM mushrooms from the genus Amanitathe Caesars mushrooms, which follow similar diversity patterns. Our approach consisted in applying a suite of models including (1) nontrait-dependent time-varying diversification (Bayesian analysis of macroevolutionary mixtures [BAMM]), (2) continuous trait-dependent diversification (quantitative-state speciation and extinction [QuaSSE]), and (3) diversity-dependent diversification. In short, results give strong support for high speciation rates at temperate latitudes (BAMM and QuaSSE). We also find some evidence for different diversity-dependence thresholds in temperate and tropical subclades, and little differences in diversity due to extinction. We conclude that our analyses on the Caesars mushrooms give further evidence of a temperate-peaking LDG in EM fungi, highlighting the importance and the implications of macroevolutionary processes in explaining diversity gradients in microorganisms.	2015	69	10.1111/evo.12722
ODwyer, JP; Kembel, SW; Sharpton, TJ	Backbones of evolutionary history test biodiversity theory for microbes	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	Identifying the ecological and evolutionary mechanisms that determine biological diversity is a central question in ecology. In microbial ecology, phylogenetic diversity is an increasingly common and relevant means of quantifying community diversity, particularly given the challenges in defining unambiguous species units from environmental sequence data. We explore patterns of phylogenetic diversity across multiple bacterial communities drawn from different habitats and compare these data to evolutionary trees generated using theoretical models of biodiversity. We have two central findings. First, although on finer scales the empirical trees are highly idiosyncratic, on coarse scales the backbone of these trees is simple and robust, consistent across habitats, and displays bursts of diversification dotted throughout. Second, we find that these data demonstrate a clear departure from the predictions of standard neutral theories of biodiversity and that an alternative family of generalized models provides a qualitatively better description. Together, these results lay the groundwork for a theoretical framework to connect ecological mechanisms to observed phylogenetic patterns in microbial communities.	2015	112	10.1073/pnas.1419341112
Okie, JG; Van Horn, DJ; Storch, D; Barrett, JE; Gooseff, MN; Kopsova, L; Takacs-Vesbach, CD	Niche and metabolic principles explain patterns of diversity and distribution: theory and a case study with soil bacterial communities	PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY B-BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES	The causes of biodiversity patterns are controversial and elusive due to complex environmental variation, covarying changes in communities, and lack of baseline and null theories to differentiate straightforward causes from more complex mechanisms. To address these limitations, we developed general diversity theory integrating metabolic principles with niche-based community assembly. We evaluated this theory by investigating patterns in the diversity and distribution of soil bacteria taxa across four orders of magnitude variation in spatial scale on an Antarctic mountainside in low complexity, highly oligotrophic soils. Our theory predicts that lower temperatures should reduce taxon niche widths along environmental gradients due to decreasing growth rates, and the changing niche widths should lead to contrasting alpha- and beta-diversity patterns. In accord with the predictions, alpha-diversity, niche widths and occupancies decreased while beta-diversity increased with increasing elevation and decreasing temperature. The theory also successfully predicts a hump-shaped relationship between alpha-diversity and pH and a negative relationship between alpha-diversity and salinity. Thus, a few simple principles explained systematic microbial diversity variation along multiple gradients. Such general theory can be used to disentangle baseline effects from more complex effects of temperature and other variables on biodiversity patterns in a variety of ecosystems and organisms.	2015	282	10.1098/rspb.2014.2630
Heino, J; Soininen, J; Alahuhta, J; Lappalainen, J; Virtanen, R	A comparative analysis of metacommunity types in the freshwater realm	ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION	Most metacommunity studies have taken a direct mechanistic approach, aiming to model the effects of local and regional processes on local communities within a metacommunity. An alternative approach is to focus on emergent patterns at the metacommunity level through applying the elements of metacommunity structure (EMS; Oikos, 97, 2002, 237) analysis. The EMS approach has very rarely been applied in the context of a comparative analysis of metacommunity types of main microbial, plant, and animal groups. Furthermore, to our knowledge, no study has associated metacommunity types with their potential ecological correlates in the freshwater realm. We assembled data for 45 freshwater metacommunities, incorporating biologically highly disparate organismal groups (i.e., bacteria, algae, macrophytes, invertebrates, and fish). We first examined ecological correlates (e.g., matrix properties, beta diversity, and average characteristics of a metacommunity, including body size, trophic group, ecosystem type, life form, and dispersal mode) of the three elements of metacommunity structure (i.e., coherence, turnover, and boundary clumping). Second, based on those three elements, we determined which metacommunity types prevailed in freshwater systems and which ecological correlates best discriminated among the observed metacommunity types. We found that the three elements of metacommunity structure were not strongly related to the ecological correlates, except that turnover was positively related to beta diversity. We observed six metacommunity types. The most common were Clementsian and quasi-nested metacommunity types, whereas Random, quasi-Clementsian, Gleasonian, and quasi-Gleasonian types were less common. These six metacommunity types were best discriminated by beta diversity and the first axis of metacommunity ecological traits, ranging from metacommunities of producer organisms occurring in streams to those of large predatory organisms occurring in lakes. Our results showed that focusing on the emergent properties of multiple metacommunities provides information additional to that obtained in studies examining variation in local community structure within a metacommunity.	2015	5	10.1002/ece3.1460
Chow, CET; Suttle, CA	Biogeography of Viruses in the Sea	ANNUAL REVIEW OF VIROLOGY, VOL 2	Viral ecology is a rapidly progressing area of research, as molecular methods have improved significantly for targeted research on specific populations and whole communities. To interpret and synthesize global viral diversity and distribution, it is feasible to assess whether macroecology concepts can apply to marine viruses. We review how viral and host life history and physical properties can influence viral distribution in light of biogeography and metacommunity ecology paradigms. We highlight analytical approaches that can be applied to emerging global data sets and meta-analyses to identify individual taxa with global influence and drivers of emergent properties that influence microbial community structure by drawing on examples across the spectrum of viral taxa, from RNA to ssDNA and dsDNA viruses.	2015	2	10.1146/annurev-virology-031413-085540
Teittinen, A; Soininen, J	Testing the theory of island biogeography for microorganisms-patterns for spring diatoms	AQUATIC MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	According to the theory of island biogeography, species richness in island-like systems is determined by ecosystem size and isolation. However, there is only very little information about how this theory applies to microorganisms. The aim of this study was to examine the effects of local physicochemical variables, land use and geographical factors on diatom species richness and community composition in 50 boreal springs in Finland, and to test for species-area and species-isolation relationships. There were nonsignificant relationships between species richness and spring area and isolation. The best approximating generalized linear model suggested that variation in species richness was related to several local resource and stress factors such as water conductivity, pH, colour, temperature and nutrient concentrations. Based on Mantel tests, diatom community similarity was significantly correlated with environmental distance, but not with geographical distance. Analysis of similarities further showed that community compositions did not differ significantly between ecoregions. These results suggest that spatial factors are of minor importance for spring diatoms compared with environmental filtering. Patterns in spring diatoms do not concur with the theory of island biogeography as we found no support for species-area or species-isolation relationships. At these spatial scales, dispersal limitation does not seem to influence diatom communities.	2015	75	10.3354/ame01759
Ferjani, R; Marasco, R; Rolli, E; Cherif, H; Cherif, A; Gtari, M; Boudabous, A; Daffonchio, D; Ouzari, HI	The Date Palm Tree Rhizosphere Is a Niche for Plant Growth Promoting Bacteria in the Oasis Ecosystem	BIOMED RESEARCH INTERNATIONAL	In arid ecosystems environmental factors such as geoclimatic conditions and agricultural practices are of major importance in shaping the diversity and functionality of plant-associated bacterial communities. Assessing the influence of such factors is a key to understand (i) the driving forces determining the shape of root-associated bacterial communities and (ii) the plant growth promoting (PGP) services they provide. Desert oasis environment was chosen as model ecosystem where agriculture is possible by the microclimate determined by the date palm cultivation. The bacterial communities in the soil fractions associated with the root system of date palms cultivated in seven oases in Tunisia were assessed by culture-independent and dependent approaches. According to 16S rRNA gene PCR-DGGE fingerprinting, the shapes of the date palm rhizosphere bacterial communities correlate with geoclimatic features along a north-south aridity transect. Despite the fact that the date palm root bacterial community structure was strongly influenced by macroecological factors, the potential rhizosphere services reflected in the PGP traits of isolates screened in vitro were conserved among the different oases. Such services were exerted by the 83% of the screened isolates. The comparable numbers and types of PGP traits indicate their importance in maintaining the plant functional homeostasis despite the different environmental selection pressures.	2015		10.1155/2015/153851
Polme, S; Bahram, M; Koljalg, U; Tedersoo, L	Global biogeography of Alnus-associated Frankia actinobacteria	NEW PHYTOLOGIST	Macroecological patterns of microbes have received relatively little attention until recently. This study aimed to disentangle the determinants of the global biogeographic community of Alnus-associated actinobacteria belonging to the Frankia alni complex. By determining a global sequence similarity threshold for the nitrogenase reductase (nifH) gene, we separated Frankia into operational taxonomic units (OTUs) and tested the relative effects of Alnus phylogeny, geographic relatedness, and climatic and edaphic variables on community composition at the global scale. Based on the optimal nifH gene sequence similarity threshold of 99.3%, we distinguished 43 Frankia OTUs from root systems of 22 Alnus species on four continents. Host phylogeny was the main determinant of Frankia OTU-based community composition, but there was no effect on the phylogenetic structure of Frankia. Biogeographic analyses revealed the strongest cross-continental links over the Beringian land bridge. Despite the facultative symbiotic nature of Frankia, phylogenetic relations among Alnus species play a prominent role in structuring root-associated Frankia communities and their biogeographic patterns. Our results suggest that Alnus species exert strong phylogenetically determined selection pressure on compatible Actinobacteria.	2014	204	10.1111/nph.12962
Fonseca, VG; Carvalho, GR; Nichols, B; Quince, C; Johnson, HF; Neill, SP; Lambshead, JD; Thomas, WK; Power, DM; Creer, S	Metagenetic analysis of patterns of distribution and diversity of marine meiobenthic eukaryotes	GLOBAL ECOLOGY AND BIOGEOGRAPHY	AimMeiofaunal communities that inhabit the marine benthos offer unique opportunities to simultaneously study the macroecology of numerous phyla that exhibit different life-history strategies. Here, we ask: (1) if the macroecology of meiobenthic communities is explained mainly by dispersal constraints or by environmental conditions; and (2) if levels of meiofaunal diversity surpass existing estimates based on morphological taxonomy. LocationUK and mainland European coast. MethodsNext-generation sequencing techniques (NGS; Roche 454 FLX platform) using 18S nuclear small subunit ribosomal DNA (rDNA) gene. Pyrosequences were analysed using AmpliconNoise followed by chimera removal using Perseus. ResultsRarefaction curves revealed that sampling saturation was only reached at 15% of sites, highlighting that the bulk of meiofaunal diversity is yet to be discovered. Overall, 1353 OTUs were recovered and assigned to 23 different phyla. The majority of sampled sites had c. 60-70 unique operational taxonomic units (OTUs) per site, indicating high levels of beta diversity. The environmental parameters that best explained community structure were seawater temperature, geographical distance and sediment size, but most of the variability (R-2=70%-80%) remains unexplained. Main conclusionsHigh percentages of endemic OTUs suggest that meiobenthic community composition is partly niche-driven, as observed in larger organisms, but also shares macroecological features of microorganisms by showing high levels of cosmopolitanism (albeit on a much smaller scale). Meiobenthic communities exhibited patterns of isolation by distance as well as associations between niche, latitude and temperature, indicating that meiobenthic communities result from a combination of niche assembly and dispersal processes. Conversely, isolation-by-distance patterns were not identified in the featured protists, suggesting that animals and protists adhere to radically different macroecological processes, linked to life-history strategies.	2014	23	10.1111/geb.12223
Gerardo, NM; Parker, BJ	Mechanisms of symbiont-conferred protection against natural enemies: an ecological and evolutionary framework	CURRENT OPINION IN INSECT SCIENCE	Many vertically-transmitted microbial symbionts protect their insect hosts from natural enemies, including host-targeted pathogens and parasites, and those vectored by insects to other hosts. Protection is often achieved through production of inhibiting toxins, which is not surprising given that toxin production mediates competition in many environments. Classical models of macroecological interactions, however, demonstrate that interspecific competition can be less direct, and recent research indicates that symbiont-protection can be mediated through exploitation of limiting resources, and through activation of host immune mechanisms that then suppress natural enemies. Available data, though limited, suggest that effects of symbionts on vectored pathogens and parasites, as compared to those that are host-targeted, are more likely to result from symbiont activation of the host immune system. We discuss these different mechanisms in light of their potential impact on the evolution of host physiological processes.	2014	4	10.1016/j.cois.2014.08.002
Peay, KG; Bruns, TD	Spore dispersal of basidiomycete fungi at the landscape scale is driven by stochastic and deterministic processes and generates variability in plant-fungal interactions	NEW PHYTOLOGIST	Fungi play an important role in plant communities and ecosystem function. As a result, variation in fungal community composition can have important consequences for plant fitness. However, there are relatively few empirical data on how dispersal might affect fungal communities and the ecological processes they mediate. We established sampling stations across a large area of coastal landscape varying in their spatial proximity to each other and contrasting vegetation types. We measured dispersal of spores from a key group of fungi, the Basidomycota, across this landscape using qPCR and 454 pyrosequencing. We also measured the colonization of ectomycorrhizal fungi at each station using sterile bait seedlings. We found a high degree of spatial and temporal variability in the composition of Basidiomycota spores. This variability was in part stochastic and in part explained by spatial proximity to other vegetation types and time of year. Variation in spore community also affected colonization by ectomycorrhizal fungi and seedling growth. Our results demonstrate that fungal host and habitat specificity coupled with dispersal limitation can lead to local variation in fungal community structure and plant-fungal interactions. Understanding fungal communities also requires explicit knowledge of landscape context in addition to local environmental conditions.	2014	204	10.1111/nph.12906
Bergmann, RC; Ralebitso-Senior, TK; Thompson, TJU	An RNA-based analysis of changes in biodiversity indices in response to Sus scrofa domesticus decomposition	FORENSIC SCIENCE INTERNATIONAL	Despite emergent research initiatives, significant knowledge gaps remain of soil microbiology-associated cadaver decomposition. Nevertheless, preliminary studies have shown that the vast diversity and complex interactions of soil microbial communities have great potential for forensic applications such as clandestine grave location and postmortem interval estimation. This study investigated changes in soil bacterial communities during pig (Sus scrofa domesticus) leg decomposition. 16S rRNA, instead of the usually applied 16S rDNA marker, was used to compare the metabolically active bacteria. Total bacterial RNA was extracted from soil samples of three different layers on day 3, 28 and 77 after the shallow burial of a pig leg. The V3 region of the 16S rRNA was amplified, analysed by RT-PCR DGGE, and compared with control soil bacterial community profiles. Statistically significant differences in soil bacterial biodiversity were observed. For the control, bacterial diversity (H) and species richness (S) of the three layers averaged 2.48 +/- 0.14 (H) and 18.8 +/- 2.5 (S), respectively, while for the test soil increases (p = 0.027) were recorded between day 3 (H = 2.71 +/- 0.02; S = 21.3 +/- 2.0) and 28 (H = 3.46 +/- 0.32; S = 60.3 +/- 16.9), particularly in the middle (10-20 cm) and bottom (20-30 cm) soil layers. Between day 28 and 77 the diversity and richness then decreased on average for all three layers (H = 3.43 +/- 0.20; S = 60.0 +/- 17.3) but remained higher than on day 3. Thus, responses in soil bacterial profiles and activity to carcass decomposition, detected and characterised by RNA-based DGGE, could be used together with RNA sequencing data, changes in physico-chemical variables (carbon, nitrogen, phosphorus, temperature, redox potential, water activity and pH) and conventional macroecology markers (e. g. insects and vegetation), to develop a suite of analytical protocols for different forensic scenarios. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.	2014	241	10.1016/j.forsciint.2014.06.001
Jones, DOB; Yool, A; Wei, CL; Henson, SA; Ruhl, HA; Watson, RA; Gehlen, M	Global reductions in seafloor biomass in response to climate change	GLOBAL CHANGE BIOLOGY	Seafloor organisms are vital for healthy marine ecosystems, contributing to elemental cycling, benthic remineralization, and ultimately sequestration of carbon. Deep-sea life is primarily reliant on the export flux of particulate organic carbon from the surface ocean for food, but most ocean biogeochemistry models predict global decreases in export flux resulting from 21st century anthropogenically induced warming. Here we show that decadal-to-century scale changes in carbon export associated with climate change lead to an estimated 5.2% decrease in future (2091-2100) global open ocean benthic biomass under RCP8.5 (reduction of 5.2 Mt C) compared with contemporary conditions (2006-2015). Our projections use multi-model mean export flux estimates from eight fully coupled earth system models, which contributed to the Coupled Model Intercomparison Project Phase 5, that have been forced by high and low representative concentration pathways (RCP8.5 and 4.5, respectively). These export flux estimates are used in conjunction with published empirical relationships to predict changes in benthic biomass. The polar oceans and some upwelling areas may experience increases in benthic biomass, but most other regions show decreases, with up to 38% reductions in parts of the northeast Atlantic. Our analysis projects a future ocean with smaller sized infaunal benthos, potentially reducing energy transfer rates though benthic multicellular food webs. More than 80% of potential deep-water biodiversity hotspots known around the world, including canyons, seamounts, and cold-water coral reefs, are projected to experience negative changes in biomass. These major reductions in biomass may lead to widespread change in benthic ecosystems and the functions and services they provide.	2014	20	10.1111/gcb.12480
Barberan, A; Casamayor, EO; Fierer, N	The microbial contribution to macroecology	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	There has been a recent explosion of research within the field of microbial ecology that has been fueled, in part, by methodological improvements that make it feasible to characterize microbial communities to an extent that was inconceivable only a few years ago. Furthermore, there is increasing recognition within the field of ecology that microorganisms play a critical role in the health of organisms and ecosystems. Despite these developments, an important gap still persists between the theoretical framework of macroecology and microbial ecology. We highlight two idiosyncrasies of microorganisms that are fundamental to understanding macroecological patterns and their mechanistic drivers. First, high dispersal rates provide novel opportunities to test the relative importance of niche, stochastic, and historical processes in structuring biological communities. Second, high speciation rates potentially lead to the convergence of ecological and evolutionary time scales. After reviewing these unique aspects, we discuss strategies for improving the conceptual integration of microbes into macroecology. As examples, we discuss the use of phylogenetic ecology as an integrative approach to explore patterns across the tree of life. Then we demonstrate how two general theories of biodiversity (i.e., the recently developed theory of stochastic geometry and the neutral theory) can be adapted to microorganisms. We demonstrate how conceptual models that integrate evolutionary and ecological mechanisms can contribute to the unification of microbial ecology and macroecology.	2014	5	10.3389/fmicb.2014.00203
Hai, RT; Wang, YL; Wang, XH; Li, Y; Du, ZZ	Bacterial Community Dynamics and Taxa-Time Relationships within Two Activated Sludge Bioreactors	PLOS ONE	Background: Biological activated sludge process must be functionally stable to continuously remove contaminants while relying upon the activity of complex microbial communities. However the dynamics of these communities are as yet poorly understood. A macroecology metric used to quantify community dynamic is the taxa-time relationship (TTR). Although the TTR of animal and plant species has been well documented, knowledge is still lacking in regard to TTR of microbial communities in activated sludge bioreactors. Aims: 1) To characterize the temporal dynamics of bacterial taxa in activated sludge from two bioreactors of different scale and investigate factors affecting such dynamics; 2) to evaluate the TTRs of activated sludge microbial communities in two bioreactors of different scale. Methods: Temporal variation of bacterial taxa in activated sludge collected from a full-and lab-scale activated sludge bioreactor was monitored over a one-year period using pyrosequencing of 16S rRNA genes. TTR was employed to quantify the bacterial taxa shifts based on the power law equation S = cT(w). Results: The power law exponent w for the full-scale bioreactor was 0.43 (R-2 = 0.970), which is lower than that of the lab-scale bioreactor (w = 0.55, R-2 = 0.971). The exponents for the dominant phyla were generally higher than that of the rare phyla. Canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) result showed that the bacterial community variance was significantly associated with water temperature, influent (biochemical oxygen demand) BOD, bioreactor scale and dissolved oxygen (DO). Variance partitioning analyses suggested that wastewater characteristics had the greatest contribution to the bacterial community variance, explaining 20.3% of the variance of bacterial communities independently, followed by operational parameters (19.9%) and bioreactor scale (3.6%). Conclusions: Results of this study suggest bacterial community dynamics were likely driven partly by wastewater and operational parameters and provide evidence that the TTR may be a fundamental ecological pattern in macro- and microbial systems.	2014	9	10.1371/journal.pone.0090175
Zinger, L; Boetius, A; Ramette, A	Bacterial taxa-area and distance-decay relationships in marine environments	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	The taxa-area relationship (TAR) and the distance-decay relationship (DDR) both describe spatial turnover of taxa and are central patterns of biodiversity. Here, we compared TAR and DDR of bacterial communities across different marine realms and ecosystems at the global scale. To obtain reliable global estimates for both relationships, we quantified the poorly assessed effects of sequencing depth, rare taxa removal and number of sampling sites. Slope coefficients of bacterial TARs were within the range of those of plants and animals, whereas slope coefficients of bacterial DDR were much lower. Slope coefficients were mostly affected by removing rare taxa and by the number of sampling sites considered in the calculations. TAR and DDR slope coefficients were overestimated at sequencing depth <4000 sequences per sample. Noticeably, bacterial TAR and DDR patterns did not correlate with each other both within and across ecosystem types, suggesting that (i) TAR cannot be directly derived from DDR and (ii) TAR and DDR may be influenced by different ecological factors. Nevertheless, we found marine bacterial TAR and DDR to be steeper in ecosystems associated with high environmental heterogeneity or spatial isolation, namely marine sediments and coastal environments compared with pelagic ecosystems. Hence, our study provides information on macroecological patterns of marine bacteria, as well as methodological and conceptual insights, at a time when biodiversity surveys increasingly make use of high-throughput sequencing technologies.	2014	23	10.1111/mec.12640
Luke, C; Frenzel, P; Ho, A; Fiantis, D; Schad, P; Schneider, B; Schwark, L; Utami, SR	Macroecology of methane-oxidizing bacteria: the beta-diversity of pmoA genotypes in tropical and subtropical rice paddies	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Studies addressing microbial biogeography have increased during the past decade, but research on microbial distribution patterns is still in its infancies, and many aspects are only poorly understood. Here, we compared the methanotroph community in paddy soils sampled in Indonesia, Vietnam, China and Italy, focusing on the distance-decay relationship. We used the pmoA gene as marker for methanotroph diversity in terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism, microarray and pyrosequencing approaches. We could observe a significant increase of -diversity with geographical distance across continents (12000km). Measured environmental parameters explained only a small amount of data variation, and we found no evidence for dispersal limitation. Thus, we propose historical contingencies being responsible for the observed patterns. Furthermore, we performed an in-depth analysis of type II methanotroph pmoA distribution at the sequence level. We used ordination analysis to project sequence dissimilarities into a three-dimensional space (multidimensional scaling). The ordination suggests that type II methanotrophs in paddy fields can be divided into five major groups. However, these groups were found to be distributed in all soils independent of the geographic origin. By including tropical field sites (Indonesia and Vietnam) into the analysis, we further observed the first paddy fields harbouring a methanotroph community depleted in type II methanotrophs.	2014	16	10.1111/1462-2920.12190
Locey, KJ; White, EP	How species richness and total abundance constrain the distribution of abundance	ECOLOGY LETTERS	The species abundance distribution (SAD) is one of the most intensively studied distributions in ecology and its hollow-curve shape is one of ecologys most general patterns. We examine the SAD in the context of all possible forms having the same richness (S) and total abundance (N), i.e. the feasible set. We find that feasible sets are dominated by similarly shaped hollow curves, most of which are highly correlated with empirical SADs (most R-2 values > 75%), revealing a strong influence of N and S on the form of the SAD and an a priori explanation for the ubiquitous hollow curve. Empirical SADs are often more hollow and less variable than the majority of the feasible set, revealing exceptional unevenness and relatively low natural variability among ecological communities. We discuss the importance of the feasible set in understanding how general constraints determine observable variation and influence the forms of predicted and empirical patterns.	2013	16	10.1111/ele.12154
Levy, R; Borenstein, E	Metabolic modeling of species interaction in the human microbiome elucidates community-level assembly rules	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	The human microbiome plays a key role in human health and is associated with numerous diseases. Metagenomic-based studies are now generating valuable information about the composition of the microbiome in health and in disease, demonstrating non-neutral assembly processes and complex co-occurrence patterns. However, the underlying ecological forces that structure the microbiome are still unclear. Specifically, compositional studies alone with no information about mechanisms of interaction, potential competition, or syntrophy, cannot clearly distinguish habitat-filtering and species assortment assembly processes. To address this challenge, we introduce a computational framework, integrating metagenomic-based compositional data with genome-scale metabolic modeling of species interaction. We use in silico metabolic network models to predict levels of competition and complementarity among 154 microbiome species and compare predicted interaction measures to species co-occurrence. Applying this approach to two large-scale datasets describing the composition of the gut microbiome, we find that species tend to co-occur across individuals more frequently with species with which they strongly compete, suggesting that microbiome assembly is dominated by habitat filtering. Moreover, species partners and excluders exhibit distinct metabolic interaction levels. Importantly, we show that these trends cannot be explained by phylogeny alone and hold across multiple taxonomic levels. Interestingly, controlling for host health does not change the observed patterns, indicating that the axes along which species are filtered are not fully defined by macroecological host states. The approach presented here lays the foundation for a reverse-ecology framework for addressing key questions concerning the assembly of host-associated communities and for informing clinical efforts to manipulate the microbiome.	2013	110	10.1073/pnas.1300926110
Nazaries, L; Pan, Y; Bodrossy, L; Baggs, EM; Millard, P; Murrell, JC; Singh, BK	Evidence of Microbial Regulation of Biogeochemical Cycles from a Study on Methane Flux and Land Use Change	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Microbes play an essential role in ecosystem functions, including carrying out biogeochemical cycles, but are currently considered a black box in predictive models and all global biodiversity debates. This is due to (i) perceived temporal and spatial variations in microbial communities and (ii) lack of ecological theory explaining how microbes regulate ecosystem functions. Providing evidence of the microbial regulation of biogeochemical cycles is key for predicting ecosystem functions, including greenhouse gas fluxes, under current and future climate scenarios. Using functional measures, stable-isotope probing, and molecular methods, we show that microbial (community diversity and function) response to land use change is stable over time. We investigated the change in net methane flux and associated microbial communities due to afforestation of bog, grassland, and moorland. Afforestation resulted in the stable and consistent enhancement in sink of atmospheric methane at all sites. This change in function was linked to a niche-specific separation of microbial communities (methanotrophs). The results suggest that ecological theories developed for macroecology may explain the microbial regulation of the methane cycle. Our findings provide support for the explicit consideration of microbial data in ecosystem/climate models to improve predictions of biogeochemical cycles.	2013	79	10.1128/AEM.00095-13
Polme, S; Bahram, M; Yamanaka, T; Nara, K; Dai, YC; Grebenc, T; Kraigher, H; Toivonen, M; Wang, PH; Matsuda, Y; Naadel, T; Kennedy, PG; Koljalg, U; Tedersoo, L	Biogeography of ectomycorrhizal fungi associated with alders (Alnus spp.) in relation to biotic and abiotic variables at the global scale	NEW PHYTOLOGIST	Much of the macroecological information about microorganisms is confounded by the lack of standardized methodology, paucity of metadata and sampling effect of a particular substrate or interacting host taxa. This study aims to disentangle the relative effects of biological, geographical and edaphic variables on the distribution of Alnus-associated ectomycorrhizal (ECM) fungi at the global scale by using comparable sampling and analysis methods. Ribosomal DNA sequence analysis revealed 146 taxa of ECM fungi from 22 Alnus species across 96 sites worldwide. Use of spatial and phylogenetic eigenvectors along with environmental variables in model selection indicated that phylogenetic relations among host plants and geographical links explained 43 and 10%, respectively, in ECM fungal community composition, whereas soil calcium concentration positively influenced taxonomic richness. Intrageneric phylogenetic relations among host plants and regional processes largely account for the global biogeographic distribution of Alnus-associated ECM fungi. The biogeography of ECM fungi is consistent with ancient host migration patterns from Eurasia to North America and from southern Europe to northern Europe after the last glacial maximum, indicating codispersal of hosts and their mycobionts.	2013	198	10.1111/nph.12170
Vezzulli, L; Colwell, RR; Pruzzo, C	Ocean Warming and Spread of Pathogenic Vibrios in the Aquatic Environment	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Vibrios are among the most common bacteria that inhabit surface waters throughout the world and are responsible for a number of severe infections both in humans and animals. Several reports recently showed that human Vibrio illnesses are increasing worldwide including fatal acute diarrheal diseases, such as cholera, gastroenteritis, wound infections, and septicemia. Many scientists believe this increase may be associated with global warming and rise in sea surface temperature (SST), although not enough evidence is available to support a causal link between emergence of Vibrio infections and climate warming. The effect of increased SST in promoting spread of vibrios in coastal and brackish waters is considered a causal factor explaining this trend. Field and laboratory studies carried out over the past 40 years supported this hypothesis, clearly showing temperature promotes Vibrio growth and persistence in the aquatic environment. Most recently, a long-term retrospective microbiological study carried out in the coastal waters of the southern North Sea provided the first experimental evidence for a positive and significant relationship between SST and Vibrio occurrence over a multidecadal time scale. As a future challenge, macroecological studies of the effects of ocean warming on Vibrio persistence and spread in the aquatic environment over large spatial and temporal scales would conclusively support evidence acquired to date combined with studies of the impact of global warming on epidemiologically relevant variables, such as host susceptibility and exposure. Assessing a causal link between ongoing climate change and enhanced growth and spread of vibrios and related illness is expected to improve forecast and mitigate future outbreaks associated with these pathogens.	2013	65	10.1007/s00248-012-0163-2
Amend, AS; Oliver, TA; Amaral-Zettler, LA; Boetius, A; Fuhrman, JA; Horner-Devine, MC; Huse, SM; Welch, DBM; Martiny, AC; Ramette, A; Zinger, L; Sogin, ML; Martiny, JBH	Macroecological patterns of marine bacteria on a global scale	JOURNAL OF BIOGEOGRAPHY	Aim To test whether within-species and among-species patterns of abundance and latitudinal range in marine bacteria resemble those found for macro-organisms, and whether these patterns differ along latitudinal clines. Location Global pelagic marine environments. Methods Taxon-specific sequence abundance and location were retrieved from the open-access V6-rRNA pyrotag sequence data base VAMPS (http://vamps.mbl.edu/), which holds a massive collection of marine bacterial community data sets from the International Census of Marine Microbes sampling effort of global ocean water masses. Data were randomly subsampled to correct for spatial bias and for differences in sampling effort. Results We show that bacterial latitudinal ranges are narrower than expected by chance. When present in both Northern and Southern hemispheres, taxa occupy restricted ranges at similar latitudes on both sides of the equator. A significant and positive relationship exists between sequence abundance and latitudinal range, although this pattern contains a large amount of variance. Abundant taxa in the tropics and in the Northern Hemisphere generally have smaller ranges than those in the Southern Hemisphere. We show that the mean latitudinal range of bacterial taxa increases with latitude, supporting the existence of a Rapoport effect in marine bacterioplankton. Finally, we show that bacterioplankton communities contain a higher proportion of abundant taxa as they approach the poles. Main conclusions Macroecological patterns such as the abundancerange relationship, in general, extend to marine bacteria. However, differences in the shape of these relationships between bacteria and macro-organisms call into question whether the processes and their relative importance in shaping global marine bacteria and macro-organism distributions are the same.	2013	40	10.1111/jbi.12034
Sul, WJ; Oliver, TA; Ducklow, HW; Amaral-Zettler, LA; Sogin, ML	Marine bacteria exhibit a bipolar distribution	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	The microbial cosmopolitan dispersion hypothesis often invoked to explain distribution patterns driven by high connectivity of oceanographic water masses and widespread dispersal ability has never been rigorously tested. By using a global marine bacterial dataset and iterative matrix randomization simulation, we show that marine bacteria exhibit a significantly greater dispersal limitation than predicted by our null model using the everything is everywhere tenet with no dispersal limitation scenario. Specifically, marine bacteria displayed bipolar distributions (i.e., species occurring exclusively at both poles and nowhere else) significantly less often than in the null model. Furthermore, we observed fewer taxa present in both hemispheres but more taxa present only in a single hemisphere than expected under the null model. Each of these trends diverged further from the null expectation as the compared habitats became more geographically distant but more environmentally similar. Our meta-analysis supported a latitudinal gradient in bacterial diversity with higher richness at lower latitudes, but decreased richness toward the poles. Bacteria in the tropics also demonstrated narrower latitudinal ranges at lower latitudes and relatively larger ranges in higher latitudes, conforming to the controversial macroecological pattern of the Rapoport rule. Collectively, our findings suggest that bacteria follow biogeographic patterns more typical of macroscopic organisms, and that dispersal limitation, not just environmental selection, likely plays an important role. Distributions of microbes that deliver critical ecosystemservices, particularly those in polar regions, may be vulnerable to the same impacts that environmental stressors, climate warming, and degradation in habitat quality are having on biodiversity in animal and plant species.	2013	110	10.1073/pnas.1212424110
Azovsky, A; Mazei, Y	Do microbes have macroecology? Large-scale patterns in the diversity and distribution of marine benthic ciliates	GLOBAL ECOLOGY AND BIOGEOGRAPHY	Aim The biogeography and global distribution of protists has long been disputed, with two primary, opposing views. To test these two sets of views in greater detail, we have compiled the available data for marine benthic ciliates and assessed the general patterns of their diversity and distribution compared with Metazoa. Location World-wide. Methods A comprehensive database (1342 species, over 350 sources) was used to analyse the diversity, distribution, species occurrences and range size distribution of free-living ciliates that inhabit marine sediments in 17 geographical regions. Results Twenty-five per cent of the species have been found in a single region only, whereas 18% are widespread (they occur in more than half the regions covering both hemispheres). Only 57% of regional faunas are endemic, which is much lower than for macroorganisms. Regional diversity depends neither on total area nor on coastline length and does not show any obvious latitudinal trends, but correlates highly with the investigation effort expended in a region and (negatively) with the average salinity. A comparison of species composition reveals distinctions between the Arctic Area (the White, Barents and Kara seas), Laurasian Area (north Atlantic, north Pacific and European seas), Gondwanian Area (Southern Ocean) and the Antarctic. No clear geographical correlations are found for faunistic composition at the genus or family levels. There is the tendency to narrow the latitudinal ranges for species found at high latitudes (reversal of Rapoports rule). Main conclusions Undersampling and data insufficiency are the key factors affecting the observed diversity and distribution of microorganisms. Nevertheless, marine benthic ciliates demonstrate certain patterns that generally agree with the moderate endemicity model (Foissner, 2004, 2008), but consistently contradict the regularities commonly observed for multicellular taxa. Thus, ciliates do have a biogeography, but their macroecological patterns may be different in some respects from that of macroorganisms.	2013	22	10.1111/j.1466-8238.2012.00776.x
Chang, FH; Marquis, EC; Chang, CW; Gong, GC; Hsieh, CH	Scaling of growth rate and mortality with size and its consequence on size spectra of natural microphytoplankton assemblages in the East China Sea	BIOGEOSCIENCES	Allometric scaling of body size versus growth rate and mortality has been suggested to be a universal macroecological pattern, as described by the metabolic theory of ecology (MTE). However, whether such scaling generally holds in natural assemblages remains debated. Here, we test the hypothesis that the size-specific growth rate and grazing mortality scale with the body size with an exponent of -1/4 after temperature correction, as MTE predicts. To do so, we couple a dilution experiment with the FlowCAM imaging system to obtain size-specific growth rates and grazing mortality of natural microphytoplankton assemblages in the East China Sea. This novel approach allows us to achieve highly resolved size-specific measurements that would be very difficult to obtain in traditional size-fractionated measurements using filters. Our results do not support the MTE prediction. On average, the size-specific growth rates and grazing mortality scale almost isometrically with body size (with scaling exponent similar to 0.1). However, this finding contains high uncertainty, as the size-scaling exponent varies substantially among assemblages. The fact that size-scaling exponent varies among assemblages prompts us to further investigate how the variation of size-specific growth rate and grazing mortality can interact to determine the microphytoplankton size structure, described by normalized biomass size spectrum (NBSS), among assemblages. We test whether the variation of microphytoplankton NBSS slopes is determined by (1) differential grazing mortality of small versus large individuals, (2) differential growth rate of small versus large individuals, or (3) combinations of these scenarios. Our results indicate that the ratio of the grazing mortality of the large size category to that of the small size category best explains the variation of NBSS slopes across environments, suggesting that higher grazing mortality of large microphytoplankton may release the small phytoplankton from grazing, which in turn leads to a steeper NBSS slope. This study contributes to understanding the relative importance of bottom-up versus top-down control in shaping microphytoplankton size structure.	2013	10	10.5194/bg-10-5267-2013
Kaya, M	Terrestrial bdelloid rotifers from Erzurum (eastern part of Turkey)	TURKISH JOURNAL OF ZOOLOGY	There has been a growing interest in studies of the macroecology and biogeography of microorganisms (smaller than 2 mm) in recent years; however, knowledge of the diversity patterns of these organisms is inadequate. The reason for this lack of knowledge is that faunistic studies of these microorganisms have not been extensive enough to cover all areas of the world. Bdelloid rotifers of 200-600 mu m in size are among these microorganisms. In many countries, few studies have been conducted on bdelloid fauna thus far. With only one detailed study, Turkey can be counted as one of those countries. In this present work, 30 samples belonging to 4 substrates (mosses on concrete, mosses on rock, mosses on the ground, and lichens on trees) were collected in an eastern province of Turkey (Erzurum) at a high altitude (1761-1965 m) and examined. In total, 3000 individual (100 for each sample x 30 samples = 3000) were investigated, and 30 taxa were recorded. Twelve of them are new records for Turkey, of which 10 are new records for Asian fauna.	2013	37	10.3906/zoo-1211-32
Hulcr, J; Latimer, AM; Henley, JB; Rountree, NR; Fierer, N; Lucky, A; Lowman, MD; Dunn, RR	A Jungle in There: Bacteria in Belly Buttons are Highly Diverse, but Predictable	PLOS ONE	The belly button is one of the habitats closest to us, and yet it remains relatively unexplored. We analyzed bacteria and arachaea from the belly buttons of humans from two different populations sampled within a nation-wide citizen science project. We examined bacterial and archaeal phylotypes present and their diversity using multiplex pyrosequencing of 16S rDNA libraries. We then tested the oligarchy hypothesis borrowed from tropical macroecology, namely that the frequency of phylotypes in one sample of humans predicts its frequency in another independent sample. We also tested the predictions that frequent phylotypes (the oligarchs) tend to be common when present, and tend to be more phylogenetically clustered than rare phylotypes. Once rarefied to four hundred reads per sample, bacterial communities from belly buttons proved to be at least as diverse as communities known from other skin studies (on average 67 bacterial phylotypes per belly button). However, the belly button communities were strongly dominated by a few taxa: only 6 phylotypes occurred on >80% humans. While these frequent bacterial phylotypes (the archaea were all rare) are a tiny part of the total diversity of bacteria human navels (<0.3% of phylotypes), they constitute a major portion of individual reads (similar to 1/3), and are predictable among independent samples of humans, in terms of both the occurrence and evolutionary relatedness (more closely related than randomly drawn equal sets of phylotypes). Thus, the hypothesis that oligarchs dominate diverse assemblages appears to be supported by human-associated bacteria. Although it remains difficult to predict which species of bacteria might be found on a particular human, predicting which species are most frequent (or rare) seems more straightforward, at least for those species living in belly buttons.	2012	7	10.1371/journal.pone.0047712
Bonilla-Rosso, G; Eguiarte, LE; Romero, D; Travisano, M; Souza, V	Understanding microbial community diversity metrics derived from metagenomes: performance evaluation using simulated data sets	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Metagenomics holds the promise of greatly advancing the study of diversity in natural communities, but novel theoretical and methodological approaches must first be developed and adjusted for these data sets. We evaluated widely used macroecological metrics of taxonomic diversity on a simulated set of metagenomic samples, using phylogenetically meaningful protein-coding genes as ecological proxies. To our knowledge, this is the first approach of this kind to evaluate taxonomic diversity metrics derived from metagenomic data sets. We demonstrate that abundance matrices derived from protein-coding marker genes reproduce more faithfully the structure of the original community than those derived from SSU-rRNA gene. We also found that the most commonly used diversity metrics are biased estimators of community structure and differ significantly from their corresponding real parameters and that these biases are most likely caused by insufficient sampling and differences in community phylogenetic composition. Our results suggest that the ranking of samples using multidimensional metrics makes a good qualitative alternative for contrasting community structure and that these comparisons can be greatly improved with the incorporation of metrics for both community structure and phylogenetic diversity. These findings will help to achieve a standardized framework for community diversity comparisons derived from metagenomic data sets.	2012	82	10.1111/j.1574-6941.2012.01405.x
Passy, SI	A hierarchical theory of macroecology	ECOLOGY LETTERS	The relationships of local population density (N) with body size (M) and distribution (D) have been extensively studied because they reveal how ecological and historical factors structure species communities; however, a unifying model explaining their joint behaviour, has not been developed. Here, I propose a theory that explores these relationships hierarchically and predicts that: (1) at a metacommunity level, niche breadth, population density and regional distribution are all related and size-dependent and (2) at a community level, the exponents b and d of the relationships N similar to similar to similar to M similar to b and N similar to similar to similar to D similar to d are functions (f) of the environment and, consequently, species richness (S), allowing the following reformulation of the power laws: N similar to similar to similar to M similar to f(S) and N similar to similar to similar to D f(S) . Using this framework and continental data on stream environment, diatoms, invertebrates and fish, I address the following fundamental, but unresolved ecological questions: how do species partition their resources across environments, is energetic equivalence among them possible, are generalists more common than specialists, why are locally abundant species also regionally prevalent, and, do microbes have different biogeography than macroorganisms? The discovery that community scaling behaviour is environmentally constrained calls for better integration of macroecology and environmental science.	2012	15	10.1111/j.1461-0248.2012.01809.x
Peay, KG; Schubert, MG; Nguyen, NH; Bruns, TD	Measuring ectomycorrhizal fungal dispersal: macroecological patterns driven by microscopic propagules	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	Dispersal plays a prominent role in most conceptual models of community assembly. However, direct measurement of dispersal across a whole community is difficult at ecologically relevant spatial scales. For cryptic organisms, such as fungi and bacteria, the scale and importance of dispersal limitation has become a major point of debate. We use an experimental island biogeographic approach to measure the effects of dispersal limitation on the ecological dynamics of an important group of plant symbionts, ectomycorrhizal fungi. We manipulated the isolation of uncolonized host seedlings across a natural landscape and used a range of molecular techniques to measure the dispersal rates of ectomycorrhizal propagules and host colonization. Some species were prolific dispersers, producing annual spore loads on the order of trillions of spores per km2. However, fungal propagules reaching host seedlings decreased rapidly with increasing distance from potential spore sources, causing a concomitant reduction in ectomycorrhizal species richness, host colonization and host biomass. There were also strong differences in dispersal ability across species, which correlated well with the predictable composition of ectomycorrhizal communities associated with establishing pine forest. The use of molecular tools to measure whole community dispersal provides a direct confirmation for a key mechanism underlying island biogeography theory and has the potential to make microbial systems a model for understanding the role of dispersal in ecological theory.	2012	21	10.1111/j.1365-294X.2012.05666.x
Meyer, KM; Leveau, JHJ	Microbiology of the phyllosphere: a playground for testing ecological concepts	OECOLOGIA	Many concepts and theories in ecology are highly debated, because it is often difficult to design decisive tests with sufficient replicates. Examples include biodiversity theories, succession concepts, invasion theories, coexistence theories, and concepts of life history strategies. Microbiological tests of ecological concepts are rapidly accumulating, but have yet to tap into their full potential to complement traditional macroecological theories. Taking the example of microbial communities on leaf surfaces (i.e. the phyllosphere), we show that most explorations of ecological concepts in this field of microbiology focus on autecology and population ecology, while community ecology remains understudied. Notable exceptions are first tests of the island biogeography theory and of biodiversity theories. Here, the phyllosphere provides the unique opportunity to set up replicated experiments, potentially moving fields such as biogeography, macroecology, and landscape ecology beyond theoretical and observational evidence. Future approaches should take advantage of the great range of spatial scales offered by the leaf surface by iteratively linking laboratory experiments with spatial simulation models.	2012	168	10.1007/s00442-011-2138-2
Astorga, A; Oksanen, J; Luoto, M; Soininen, J; Virtanen, R; Muotka, T	Distance decay of similarity in freshwater communities: do macro- and microorganisms follow the same rules?	GLOBAL ECOLOGY AND BIOGEOGRAPHY	Aim An intensively debated issue in macroecology is whether unicellular organisms show biogeographic patterns different from those of macroorganisms. One aspect of this debate addresses beta diversity, that is, do microbial organisms exhibit distance-decay patterns similar to those of macroorganisms? And if so, is the decay of community similarity caused by spatially limited dispersal or by niche-related factors? We studied the community similarity of stream diatoms, macroinvertebrates and bryophytes across the same set of sites in relation to environmental and geographic distance. Location A geographical gradient of c. 1100 km in Finland. Methods We first identified the subset of environmental variables that produced the highest correlation with community similarities for each taxonomic group. Based on these variables, we used partial Mantel tests to separate the independent influences of environmental and geographical distance for distance decay of community similarity, separately for diatoms, bryophytes and macroinvertebrates. Finally, macroinvertebrates were divided into three groups based on their different dispersal categories and a partial Mantel test was used to assess whether each of these groups were differently affected by environmental versus geographic distance, i.e. is dispersal a key factor in tests of niche versus neutral models. Results The level of environmental control was by far the strongest for diatoms; however, all groups were controlled more by environmental factors than by limited dispersal. Macroinvertebrate species with low dispersal ability were significantly related to geographic distance, while more effective dispersers showed no relationship to geography but were instead strongly related to environmental distance. Main conclusions Our results suggest that patterns between macro- and microorganisms are not fundamentally different, but the level of environmental control varies according to dispersal ability. The relative importance of niche versus dispersal processes is not simply a function of organism size but other traits ( e. g. life-history type, dispersal capacity) may obscure this relationship.	2012	21	10.1111/j.1466-8238.2011.00681.x
Soininen, J	Macroecology of unicellular organisms - patterns and processes	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY REPORTS	Macroecology examines the relationship between organisms and their environment at large spatial (and temporal) scales. Typically, macroecologists explain the large-scale patterns of abundance, distribution and diversity. Despite the difficulties in sampling and characterizing microbial diversity, macroecologists have recently also been interested in unicellular organisms. Here, I review the current advances made in microbial macroecology, as well as discuss related ecosystem functions. Overall, it seems that microorganisms suit surprisingly well to known species abundance distributions and show positive relationship between distribution and adundance. Microbial species-area and distance-decay relationships tend to be weaker than for macroorganisms, but nonetheless significant. Few findings on altitudinal gradients in unicellular taxa seem to differ greatly from corresponding findings for larger taxa, whereas latitudinal gradients among microorganisms have either been clearly evident or absent depending on the context. Literature also strongly emphasizes the role of spatial scale for the patterns of diversity and suggests that patterns are affected by species traits as well as ecosystem characteristics. Finally, I discuss the large role of local biotic and abiotic variables driving the community assembly in unicellular taxa and eventually dictating how multiple ecosystem processes are performed. Present review highlights the fact that most microorganisms may not differ fundamentally from larger taxa in their large-scale distribution patterns. Yet, review also shows that many aspects of microbial macroecology are still relatively poorly understood and specific patterns depend on focal taxa and ecosystem concerned.	2012	4	10.1111/j.1758-2229.2011.00308.x
Sinsabaugh, RL; Shah, JJF	Ecoenzymatic Stoichiometry and Ecological Theory	ANNUAL REVIEW OF ECOLOGY, EVOLUTION, AND SYSTEMATICS, VOL 43	The net primary production of the biosphere is consumed largely by microorganisms, whose metabolism creates the trophic base for detrital foodwebs, drives element cycles, and mediates atmospheric composition. Biogeochemical constraints on microbial catabolism, relative to primary production, create reserves of detrital organic carbon in soils and sediments that exceed the carbon content of the atmosphere and biomass. The production of organic matter is an intracellular process that generates thousands of compounds from a small number of precursors drawn from intermediary metabolism. Osmotrophs generate growth substrates from the products of biosynthesis and diagenesis by enzyme-catalyzed reactions that occur largely outside cells. These enzymes, which we define as ecoenzymes, enter the environment by secretion and lysis. Enzyme expression is regulated by environmental signals, but once released from the cell, ecoenzymatic activity is determined by environmental interactions, represented as a kinetic cascade, that lead to multiphasic kinetics and large spatiotemporal variation. At the ecosystem level, these interactions can be viewed as an energy landscape that directs the availability and flow of resources. Ecoenzymatic activity and microbial metabolism are integrated on the basis of resource demand relative to environmental availability. Macroecological studies show that the most widely measured ecoenzymatic activities have a similar stoichiometry for all microbial communities. Ecoenzymatic stoichiometry connects the elemental stoichiometry of microbial biomass and detrital organic matter to microbial nutrient assimilation and growth. We present a model that combines the kinetics of enzyme activity and community growth under conditions of multiple resource limitation with elements of metabolic and ecological stoichiometry theory. This biogeochemical equilibrium model provides a framework for comparative studies of microbial community metabolism, the principal driver of biogeochemical cycles.	2012	43	10.1146/annurev-ecolsys-071112-124414
Wells, GF; Park, HD; Eggleston, B; Francis, CA; Criddle, CS	Fine-scale bacterial community dynamics and the taxa-time relationship within a full-scale activated sludge bioreactor	WATER RESEARCH	In activated sludge bioreactors, aerobic heterotrophic communities efficiently remove organics, nutrients, toxic substances, and pathogens from wastewater, but the dynamics of these communities are as yet poorly understood. A macroecology metric used to quantify community shifts is the taxa-time relationship, a temporal analog of the species-area curve. To determine whether this metric can be applied to full-scale bioreactors, activated sludge samples were collected weekly over a one-year period at a local municipal wastewater treatment plant. Bacterial community dynamics were evaluated by monitoring 16S rRNA genes using Terminal Restriction Fragment Length Polymorphism (T-RFLP), corroborated by clone libraries. Observed taxa richness increased with time according to a power law model, as predicted by macroecological theory, with a power law exponent of w = 0.209. The results reveal strong long-term temporal dynamics during a period of stable performance (BOD removal and nitrification). Community dynamics followed a gradual succession away from initial conditions rather than periodicity around a mean equilibrium, with greater within-month then among-month community similarities. Changes in community structure were significantly associated via multivariate statistical analyses with dissolved oxygen, temperature, influent silver, biomass (MLSS), flow rate, and influent nitrite, cadmium and chromium concentrations. Overall, our results suggest patterns of bacterial community dynamics likely regulated in part by operational parameters and provide evidence that the taxa-time relationship may be a fundamental ecological pattern in macro- and microbial systems. (C) 2011. Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2011	45	10.1016/j.watres.2011.08.006
Fontaneto, D; Westberg, M; Hortal, J	Evidence of Weak Habitat Specialisation in Microscopic Animals	PLOS ONE	Macroecology and biogeography of microscopic organisms (any living organism smaller than 2 mm) are quickly developing into fruitful research areas. Microscopic organisms also offer the potential for testing predictions and models derived from observations on larger organisms due to the feasibility of performing lab and mesocosm experiments. However, more empirical knowledge on the similarities and differences between micro- and macro-organisms is needed to ascertain how much of the results obtained from the former can be generalised to the latter. One potential misconception, based mostly on anedoctal evidence rather than explicit tests, is that microscopic organisms may have wider ecological tolerance and a lower degree of habitat specialisation than large organisms. Here we explicitly test this hypothesis within the framework of metacommunity theory, by studying host specificify in the assemblages of bdelloid rotifers (animals about 350 mm in body length) living in different species of lichens in Sweden. Using several regression-based and ANOVA analyses and controlling for both spatial structure and the kind of substrate the lichen grow over (bark vs rock), we found evidence of significant but weak species-specific associations between bdelloids and lichens, a wide overlap in species composition between lichens, and wide ecological tolerance for most bdelloid species. This confirms that microscopic organisms such as bdelloids have a lower degree of habitat specialisation than larger organisms, although this happens in a complex scenario of ecological processes, where source-sink dynamics and geographic distances seem to have no effect on species composition at the analysed scale.	2011	6	10.1371/journal.pone.0023969
Wang, JJ; Soininen, J; Zhang, Y; Wang, BX; Yang, XD; Shen, J	Contrasting patterns in elevational diversity between microorganisms and macroorganisms	JOURNAL OF BIOGEOGRAPHY	Aim Data and analyses of elevational gradients in diversity have been central to the development and evaluation of a range of general theories of biodiversity. Elevational diversity patterns have, however, been severely understudied for microbes, which often represent decomposer subsystems. Consequently, generalities in the patterns of elevational diversity across different trophic levels remain poorly understood. Our aim was to examine elevational gradients in the diversity of macroinvertebrates, diatoms and bacteria along a stony stream that covered a large elevational gradient. Location Laojun Mountain, Yunnan province, China. Methods The sampling scheme included 26 sites spaced at elevational intervals of 89 m from 1820 to 4050 m elevation along a stony stream. Macroinvertebrate and diatom richness were determined based on the morphology of the specimens. Taxonomic richness for bacteria was quantified using a molecular fingerprinting method. Over 50 environmental variables were measured at each site to quantify environmental variables that could correlate with the patterns of diversity. We used eigenvector-based spatial filters with multiple regressions to account for spatial autocorrelation. Results The bacterial richness followed an unexpected monotonic increase with elevation. Diatoms decreased monotonically, and macroinvertebrate richness showed a clear unimodal pattern with elevation. The unimodal richness pattern for macroinvertebrates was best explained by the mid-domain effect (r(2) = 0.72). The diatom richness was best explained by the variation in nutrient supply, and the increase in bacterial richness with elevation may be related to an increased carbon supply. Main conclusions We found contrasting patterns in elevational diversity among the three studied multi-trophic groups comprising unicellular and multicellular aquatic taxa. We also found that there may be fundamental differences in the mechanisms underlying these species diversity patterns.	2011	38	10.1111/j.1365-2699.2010.02423.x
Clauss, M; Muller, K; Fickel, J; Streich, WJ; Hatt, JM; Sudekum, KH	Macroecology of the host determines microecology of endobionts: protozoal faunas vary with wild ruminant feeding type and body mass	JOURNAL OF ZOOLOGY	Wild ruminants may differ in their protozoal fauna according to their feeding type, but a comprehensive evaluation of available data is lacking. Here, we evaluate the literature data available on the protozoal fauna (diversity, concentration and proportions of the major groups including Entodiniinae, Diplodiniinae and Isotrichidae) in relation to the natural diet (as percentage of grass in the natural diet, %grass) and body mass (BM) in 55 wild ruminant species. The effects of ruminant phylogeny were controlled for using phylogenies based on molecular data and phylogenetic generalized least-squares. Transferring results from domestic to wild ruminants, we hypothesized (1) a decrease in the proportion of Entodiniinae and an increase in that of Diplodiinae, with %grass in the natural diet; (2) a positive correlation between Diplodiinae and Isotrichidae; (3) no influence of BM on these protozoal groups. Based on the literature statements, we additionally expected that (4) protozoa diversity increased with %grass and BM and that (5) protozoa concentrations were independent of both BM but decreased with %grass. Only hypothesis 1 was confirmed completely. Isotrichidae and Diplodiinae only tended to correlate (P=0.08), but the proportion of Isotrichidae increased with BM. Protozoa diversity only increased with BM but not with %grass. Protozoa concentrations were very variable across the %grass range but in extreme grazers, only low concentrations were reported. The results indicate that diet determines protozoa concentrations and part of the taxonomic composition of the protozoal fauna, but not protozoal diversity. Yet, conditions determining the protozoal fauna have not been completely understood; in particular, conditions relating to the presence of Diplodiinae and Isotrichidae, which occur in opposing magnitudes in wild and domestic ruminants, respectively, remain to be investigated. The results indicate clear effects of the ecology of host species (BM, natural diet) on the ecology of their protozoal endobionts.	2011	283	10.1111/j.1469-7998.2010.00759.x
Bik, EM; Long, CD; Armitage, GC; Loomer, P; Emerson, J; Mongodin, EF; Nelson, KE; Gill, SR; Fraser-Liggett, CM; Relman, DA	Bacterial diversity in the oral cavity of 10 healthy individuals	ISME JOURNAL	The composition of the oral microbiota from 10 individuals with healthy oral tissues was determined using culture-independent techniques. From each individual, 26 specimens, each from different oral sites at a single point in time, were collected and pooled. An 11th pool was constructed using portions of the subgingival specimens from all 10 individuals. The 16S ribosomal RNA gene was amplified using broad-range bacterial primers, and clone libraries from the individual and subgingival pools were constructed. From a total of 11 368 high-quality, nonchimeric, near full-length sequences, 247 species-level phylotypes (using a 99% sequence identity threshold) and 9 bacterial phyla were identified. At least 15 bacterial genera were conserved among all 10 individuals, with significant interindividual differences at the species and strain level. Comparisons of these oral bacterial sequences with near full-length sequences found previously in the large intestines and feces of other healthy individuals suggest that the mouth and intestinal tract harbor distinct sets of bacteria. Co-occurrence analysis showed significant segregation of taxa when community membership was examined at the level of genus, but not at the level of species, suggesting that ecologically significant, competitive interactions are more apparent at a broader taxonomic level than species. This study is one of the more comprehensive, high-resolution analyses of bacterial diversity within the healthy human mouth to date, and highlights the value of tools from macroecology for enhancing our understanding of bacterial ecology in human health. The ISME Journal (2010) 4, 962-974; doi:10.1038/ismej.2010.30; published online 25 March 2010	2010	4	10.1038/ismej.2010.30
Decaens, T	Macroecological patterns in soil communities	GLOBAL ECOLOGY AND BIOGEOGRAPHY	Aim To review published evidence regarding the factors that influence the geographic variation in diversity of soil organisms at different spatial scales. Location Global. Methods A search of the relevant literature was conducted using the Web of Science and the authors personal scientific database as the major sources. Special attention was paid to include seminal studies, highly cited papers and/or studies highlighting novel results. Results Despite their significant contribution to global biodiversity, our taxonomic knowledge of soil biota is still poor compared with that of most above-ground organisms. This is particularly evident for small-bodied taxa. Global patterns of soil biodiversity distribution have been poorly documented and are thought to differ significantly from what is reported above-ground. Based on existing data, it appears that microorganisms do not respond to large-scale environmental gradients in the same way as metazoans. Whereas soil microflora seem to be mainly represented by cosmopolitan species, soil animals respond to altitudinal, latitudinal or area gradients in the same way as described for above-ground organisms. At local scales, there is less evidence that local factors regulate above- and below-ground communities in the same way. Except for a few taxa, the humpbacked response to stress and disturbance gradients doesnt seem to apply underground. Soil communities thus appear weakly structured by competition, although competitive constraints may account for assembly rules within specific taxa. The main factor constraining local soil biodiversity is the compact and heterogeneous nature of soils, which provides unrivalled potential for niche partitioning, thus allowing high levels of local biodiversity. This heterogeneity is increased by the impact of ecosystem engineers that generate resource patchiness at a range of spatio-temporal scales.	2010	19	10.1111/j.1466-8238.2009.00517.x
Ainsworth, TD; Thurber, RV; Gates, RD	The future of coral reefs: a microbial perspective	TRENDS IN ECOLOGY & EVOLUTION	Microbial communities respond and quickly adapt to disturbance and have central roles in ecosystem function. Yet, the many roles of coral-associated microbial communities are not currently accounted for in predicting future responses of reef ecosystems. Here, we propose that a clearer understanding of coral-associated microbial diversity and its interaction with both host and environment will identify important linkages occurring between the microbial communities and macroecological change. Characterizing these links is fundamental to understanding coral reef resilience and will improve our capacity to predict ecological change.	2010	25	10.1016/j.tree.2009.11.001
Dumbrell, AJ; Nelson, M; Helgason, T; Dytham, C; Fitter, AH	Idiosyncrasy and overdominance in the structure of natural communities of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi: is there a role for stochastic processes?	JOURNAL OF ECOLOGY	1. Most studies of species abundance patterns focus on conspicuous macroorganisms while microbial communities remain relatively understudied. This bias is a concern given the functional importance and high diversity of microbes. 2. We determine whether a common species abundance distribution (SAD) is observed in communities of a widespread group of soil microbes, the Glomeromycota or arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi. Using molecular techniques, we intensively sampled the AM fungal community of a woodland-grassland ecotone in Yorkshire, UK. Observed species abundances were compared to theoretical models describing SADs. We also reanalysed 32 previously published data sets in a similar manner. 3. Species abundance distributions in all the AM fungal communities fitted both lognormal and broken-stick models. However, these models consistently and significantly underpredicted the abundance of the most abundant AM fungal taxon. We found that AM fungal communities are typically dominated by a single taxon; representing on average 40% of total abundance within the community. Phylogenetic analysis of the most abundant taxa across data sets showed that the dominant AM fungal type in each community was different and not a widespread generalist. 4. We conclude that a common community structure is present in AM fungal communities from different habitats. The fit to log-normal and broken-stick models suggests the influence of niche differentiation structuring these communities. However, the consistently observed overdominance indicates that local adaptation and stochastic processes may also play important roles in structuring these communities, and we propose a mechanism to explain overdominance in AM fungal communities. 5. Synthesis. This paper applies ecological models derived from studies on larger organisms to microbial communities. Results from this study suggest that a common log-normal SAD is likely to be observed across both microbial and macro taxa. However, due to the distinctive features of microbial biology, some noticeable differences, such as heavy overdominance, may lead to unique structures in microbial communities. This research not only highlights that, to a first approximation, microbial communities follow similar processes and have similar patterns to those of macroorganisms, but also the need for large-scale microbial data sets, if we are to understand the patterns and processes regulating global biodiversity.	2010	98	10.1111/j.1365-2745.2009.01622.x
Wakelin, SA; Chu, GX; Lardner, R; Liang, YC; McLaughlin, M	A single application of Cu to field soil has long-term effects on bacterial community structure, diversity, and soil processes	PEDOBIOLOGIA	Long-term diversity-disturbance responses of soil bacterial communities to copper were determined from field-soils (Spalding; South Australia) exposed to Cu in doses ranging from 0 through to 4012 mg Cu kg(-1) soil. Nearly 6 years after application of Cu, the structure of the total bacterial community showed change over the Cu gradient (PCR-DGGE profiling). 16S rRNA clone libraries, generated from unexposed and exposed (1003 mg Cu added kg(-1) soil) treatments, had significantly different taxa composition, In particular, Acidobacteria were abundant in unexposed soil but were nearly absent from the Cu-exposed sample (P<0.05), which was dominated by Firmicute bacteria (P<0.05). Analysis of community profiles of Acidobacteria, Bacillus, Pseudomonas and Sphingomonas showed significant changes in structural composition with increasing soil Cu. The diversity (Simpsons index) of the Acidobacteria community was more sensitive to increasing concentrations of CaCl-extractable soil Cu (Cu(Ext)) than other groups, with decline in diversity occurring at 0.13 Cu(Ext) mg kg(-1) soil. In contrast, diversity in the Bacillus community increased until 10.4 Cu(Ext) mg kg(-1) soil, showing that this group was 2 orders of magnitude more resistant to Cu than Acidobacteria. Sphingomonas was the most resistant to Cu: however, this group along with Pseudomonas represented only a small percentage of total soil bacteria. Changes in bacterial community structure, but not diversity, were concomitant with a decrease in catabolic function (BioLog). Reduction in function followed a dose-response pattern with Cu(Ext) levels (R(2)=0.86). The EC(50) for functional loss was 0.21 Cu(Ext) mg kg(-1) soil, which coincided with loss of Acidobacteria diversity. The microbial responses were confirmed as being due to Cu and not shifts in soil pH (from use of CuSO(4)) as parallel Zn-based field plots (ZnSO(4)) were dissimilar. Changes in the diversity of most bacterial groups with soil Cu followed a unimodal response - i.e. diversity initially increased with Cu addition until a critical value was reached, whereupon it sharply decreased. These responses are indicative of the intermediate-disturbance-hypothesis, a macroecological theory that has not been widely tested in environmental microbial ecosystems. Crown Copyright (C) 2009 Published by Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.	2010	53	10.1016/j.pedobi.2009.09.002
Guernier, V; Guegan, JF	May Rapoports Rule Apply to Human Associated Pathogens?	ECOHEALTH	Many debates surround the generalization of Rapoports rule (i.e., the presence of a positive correlation between range size and latitude); however, little attention has been devoted to this spatial pattern (1) worldwide and (2) for pathogenic microorganisms. In this study, we analyzed this relationship for 290 human pathogenic species dispersed throughout the world to test whether pathogenic organisms with different ecological niches and strategies will show this trend. The midpoint method was used to calculate the correlation between the geographical range size and the latitude applied to different subsets of pathogens, including taxonomic subdivisions (bacteria, viruses, helminths, protozoans, and fungi) and categories based on transmission mode and host specificity. It is assumed that Rapoports spatial pattern may exist for human infectious diseases, whatever hemisphere is considered, for 5 to 7 of 8 of the selected groups, depending on the pathogen species included. This is the first study performed to investigate Rapoports pattern at a global scale for various pathogenic organisms. We also discuss how three well-known spatial patterns of diversity, i.e., latitudinal gradient, nested species pattern, and Rapoports rule, may vary together to produce the actual large-scale geographical distribution of human pathogenic species observed on Earth. These findings have important messages for understanding the distribution and the diffusion of human pathogenic species; however, further studies are needed to investigate the exact underlying mechanisms responsible for those patterns.	2009	6	10.1007/s10393-010-0290-5
Li, WKW	From cytometry to macroecology: a quarter century quest in microbial oceanography	AQUATIC MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	A quarter of a century has passed since the contemporary ecological role of water column microbes was first articulated. It was also about a quarter of a century ago that 2 other seemingly unrelated developments first appeared: the application of flow cytometry for analysis of marine microbes and the statistical approach of macroecology for the analysis of complex ecological systems. These two developments now meet at the interface of microbial oceanography. The combination of these developments, termed cytometric macroecology, provides an avenue to explore general theories of ecology and biogeography, as well as a means to address environmental issues of long-term change. This case study examines the abundance of picoeukaryotic phytoplankton from weekly to multiyear time scales and from local to global space scales. Cytometric macroecology identifies patterns of regularity arising from flexible contingent circumstances, some of which-like anthropogenic disruptions-are of special interest because they appear outside the bounds of natural variability.	2009	57	10.3354/ame01328
Bryant, JA; Lamanna, C; Morlon, H; Kerkhoff, AJ; Enquist, BJ; Green, JL	Microbes on mountainsides: Contrasting elevational patterns of bacterial and plant diversity	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	The study of elevational diversity gradients dates back to the foundation of biogeography. Although elevational patterns of plant and animal diversity have been studied for centuries, such patterns have not been reported for microorganisms and remain poorly understood. Here, in an effort to assess the generality of elevational diversity patterns, we examined soil bacterial and plant diversity along an elevation gradient. To gain insight into the forces that structure these patterns, we adopted a multifaceted approach to incorporate information about the structure, diversity, and spatial turnover of montane communities in a phylogenetic context. We found that observed patterns of plant and bacterial diversity were fundamentally different. While bacterial taxon richness and phylogenetic diversity decreased monotonically from the lowest to highest elevations, plants followed a unimodal pattern, with a peak in richness and phylogenetic diversity at mid-elevations. At all elevations bacterial communities had a tendency to be phylogenetically clustered, containing closely related taxa. In contrast, plant communities did not exhibit a uniform phylogenetic structure across the gradient: they became more overdispersed with increasing elevation, containing distantly related taxa. Finally, a metric of phylogenetic beta-diversity showed that bacterial lineages were not randomly distributed, but rather exhibited significant spatial structure across the gradient, whereas plant lineages did not exhibit a significant phylogenetic signal. Quantifying the influence of sample scale in intertaxonomic comparisons remains a challenge. Nevertheless, our findings suggest that the forces structuring microorganism and macroorganism communities along elevational gradients differ.	2008	105	10.1073/pnas.0801920105
Bent, SJ; Forney, LJ	The tragedy of the uncommon: understanding limitations in the analysis of microbial diversity	ISME JOURNAL	Molecular microbial community analysis methods have revolutionized our understanding of the diversity and distribution of bacteria, archaea and microbial eukaryotes. The information obtained has adequately demonstrated that the analysis of microbial model systems can provide important insights into ecosystem function and stability. However, the terminology and metrics used in macroecology must be applied cautiously because the methods available to characterize microbial diversity are inherently limited in their ability to detect the many numerically minor constituents of microbial communities. In this review, we focus on the use of indices to quantify the diversity found in microbial communities, and on the methods used to generate the data from which those indices are calculated. Useful conclusions regarding diversity can only be deduced if the properties of the various methods used are well understood. The commonly used diversity metrics differ in the weight they give to organisms that differ in abundance, so understanding the properties of these metrics is essential. In this review, we illustrate important methodological and metric-dependent differences using simulated communities. We conclude that the assessment of richness in complex communities is futile without extensive sampling, and that some diversity indices can be estimated with reasonable accuracy through the analysis of clone libraries, but not from community fingerprint data.	2008	2	10.1038/ismej.2008.44
van der Gast, CJ; Ager, D; Lilley, AK	Temporal scaling of bacterial taxa is influenced by both stochastic and deterministic ecological factors	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Microorganisms operate at a range of spatial and temporal scales acting as key drivers of ecosystem properties. Therefore, many key questions in microbial ecology require the consideration of both spatial and temporal scales. Spatial scaling, in particular the species-area relationship (SAR), has a long history in ecology and has recently been addressed in microbial ecology. However, the temporal analogue of the SAR, the species-time relationship, has received far less attention even in the science of general ecology. Here we focus upon the role of temporal scaling in microbial ecological patterns by coupling molecular characterization of bacterial communities in discrete island (bioreactor) systems with a macroecological approach. Our findings showed that the temporal scaling exponent (slope), and therefore taxa turnover of the bacterial taxa-time relationship decreased as selective pressure (industrial wastewater concentration) increased. Also, as the concentration of industrial wastewater increased across the bioreactors, we observed a gradual switch from stochastic community assembly to more deterministic (niche)-based considerations. The identification of broad-scale statistical patterns is particularly relevant to microbial ecology, as it is frequently difficult to identify individual species or their functions. In this study, we identify wide-reaching statistical patterns of diversity and show that they are shaped by the prevalent underlying ecological factors.	2008	10	10.1111/j.1462-2920.2007.01550.x
Dawson, MN; Hamner, WM	A biophysical perspective on dispersal and the geography of evolution in marine and terrestrial systems	JOURNAL OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY INTERFACE	The fluid mechanics of marine and terrestrial systems are surprisingly similar at many spatial and temporal scales. Not surprisingly, the dispersal of organisms that. oat, swim or fly is influenced by the fluid environments of air and seawater. Nonetheless, it has been argued repeatedly that the geography of evolution differs fundamentally between marine and terrestrial taxa. Might this view emanate from qualitative contrasts between the pelagic ocean and terrestrial land conflated by anthropocentric perception of within- and between-realm variation? We draw on recent advances in biogeography to identify two pairs of biophysically similar marine and terrestrial settings (i) aerial and marine microplankton and (ii) true islands and brackish seawater lakes which have similar geographies of evolution. Commonalities at these scales, the largest and smallest biogeographic scales, delimit the geographical extents that can possibly characterize evolution in the remaining majority of species. The geographies of evolution therefore differ statistically, not fundamentally, between marine and terrestrial systems. Comparing the geography of evolution in diverse non-microplanktonic and non-island species from a biophysical perspective is an essential next step for quantifying precisely how marine and terrestrial systems differ and is an important yet under-explored avenue of macroecology.	2008	5	10.1098/rsif.2007.1089
Vanormelingen, P; Verleyen, E; Vyverman, W	The diversity and distribution of diatoms: from cosmopolitanism to narrow endemism	BIODIVERSITY AND CONSERVATION	It has been claimed that microbial taxa will not exhibit endemism because their enormous populations remove dispersal as an effective constraint on geographical range. Here we review evidence that challenges this ubiquity hypothesis for the most speciose group of microbial eukaryotes, the diatoms. Detailed taxonomic inventories using fine-grained morphological characteristics, molecular markers, and crossing experiments have revealed that the geographic distribution of diatoms ranges from global to narrow endemic. Records of human-mediated introductions of exotic species further provide a strong indication that geographic dispersal was limiting in the past. Finally, recent studies have revealed that diatom community structure and diversity are influenced by geographical factors independent of environmental conditions. Diatom communities are thus regulated by the same processes that operate in macro-organisms, although possibly to a different degree, implying that dispersal limitation is significant and the endemism observed in isolated areas is real. These results underscore the pressing need to (1) continue research into diatom biology, ecology and the factors driving diatom species diversity and geographic distributions, and (2) protect relatively isolated areas against further introductions of exotic species.	2008	17	10.1007/s10531-007-9257-4
Cermeno, P; Figueiras, FG	Species richness and cell-size distribution: size structure of phytoplankton communities	MARINE ECOLOGY PROGRESS SERIES	If the size dependence of species richness varies across ecosystems, it should be reflected in the size distribution of total abundance. Using a database of phytoplankton abundance, species composition and cell size from coastal, shelf and open-ocean environments, we show that the biogeographical patterns of phytoplankton size distribution in the ocean are a result of systematic changes in the relationship between species richness and cell size. Our results indicate that, regardless of the environmental conditions, population abundance decreases consistently to the -3/4 power of cell size. By contrast, marine phytoplankton diversity peaks at small sizes in oligotrophic waters but is either a log-normal function or independent of cell size in eutrophic systems. It is argued that, operating on evolutionary time scales, size-dependent biophysical constraints for resource acquisition are reflected in the size distribution of species richness and consequently in the size structure of phytoplankton communities in the ocean. These findings indicate that the way in which biological diversity changes with body size is crucial to a better understanding of the structure and functioning of microbial plankton communities and how energy flows through pelagic ecosystems.	2008	357	10.3354/meps07293
Jenkins, DG; Brescacin, CR; Duxbury, CV; Elliott, JA; Evans, JA; Grablow, KR; Hillegass, M; LyonO, BN; Metzger, GA; Olandese, ML; Pepe, D; Silvers, GA; Suresch, HN; Thompson, TN; Trexler, CM; Williams, GE; Williams, NC; Williams, SE	Does size matter for dispersal distance?	GLOBAL ECOLOGY AND BIOGEOGRAPHY	Aim The aim of this study is to answer the questions: (1) do small organisms disperse farther than large, or vice versa; and (2) does the observed pattern differ for passive and active dispersers? These questions are central to several themes in biogeography (including microbial biogeography), macroecology, metacommunity ecology and conservation biology. Location The meta-analysis was conducted using published data collected worldwide. Methods We collected and analysed 795 data values in the peer-reviewed literature for direct observations of both maximal dispersal distance and mass of the dispersing organisms (e.g. seeds, not trees). Analysed taxa ranged in size from bacteria to whales. We applied macroecology analyses based on null models (using Monte Carlo randomizations) to test patterns relative to specific hypotheses. Results Collected dispersal distance and mass data spanned 9 and 21 orders of magnitude, respectively. Active dispersers dispersed significantly farther (P < 0.001) and were significantly greater in mass (P < 0.001) than passive dispersers. Overall, size matters: larger active dispersers attained greater maximum observed dispersal distances than smaller active dispersers. In contrast, passive-disperser distances were random with respect to propagule mass, but not uniformly random, in part due to sparse data available for tiny propagules. Conclusions Size is important to maximal dispersal distance for active dispersers, but not for passive dispersers. Claims that microbes disperse widely cannot be tested by current data based on direct observations of dispersal: indirect approaches will need to be applied. Distance-mass relationships should contribute to a resolution of neutral and niche-based metacommunity theories by helping scale expectations for dispersal limitation. Also, distance-mass relationships should inform analyses of latitudinal species richness and conservation biology topics such as fragmentation, umbrella species and taxonomic homogenization.	2007	16	10.1111/j.1466-8238.2007.00312.x
Walker, JJ; Pace, NR	Phylogenetic composition of Rocky Mountain endolithic microbial ecosystems	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	The endolithic environment, the pore space in rocks, is a ubiquitous microbial habitat. Photosynthesis-based endolithic communities inhabit the outer few millimeters to centimeters of rocks exposed to the surface. Such endolithic ecosystems have been proposed as simple, tractable models for understanding basic principles in microbial ecology. In order to test previously conceived hypotheses about endolithic ecosystems, we studied selected endolithic communities in the Rocky Mountain region of the United States with culture-independent molecular methods. Community compositions were determined by determining rRNA gene sequence contents, and communities were compared using statistical phylogenetic methods. The results indicate that endolithic ecosystems are seeded from a select, global metacommunity and form true ecological communities that are among the simplest microbial ecosystems known. Statistical analysis showed that biogeographical characteristics that control community composition, such as rock type, are more complex than predicted. Collectively, results of this study support the idea that patterns of microbial diversity found in endolithic communities are governed by principles similar to those observed in macroecological systems.	2007	73	10.1128/AEM.02656-06
Maraun, M; Schatz, H; Scheu, S	Awesome or ordinary? Global diversity patterns of oribatid mites	ECOGRAPHY	Diversity of most above-ground organisms increases with decreasing latitude, but the biogeographical and macroecological diversity patterns of below-ground animals have been poorly studied. We investigated the latitudinal diversity gradient in a primarily below-ground living soil taxon, oribatid mites. Furthermore, oribatid mite species richness from islands and mainlainds was tested for correlation with the size of the respective area (island or mainland) to evaluate if their species-area relationships are similar to those of above-ground taxa. The results suggest that for oribatid mites 1) diversity increases from the boreal to the warm temperate region but not further to the tropics, and 2) species-area relationships for islands and mainlands are similar to those of above-ground taxa, but this is mainly caused by very small islands, such as Cocos islands, and very large islands, such as Madagascar. When these islands are excluded the species-area relationship strongly differs from those of typical islands. The results support the view that below-ground animal taxa are generalists that inhabit wide niches. Most small islands have relatively rich oribatid mite faunas, supporting the observation that a large number of species can coexist in a small area (high alpha-diversity).	2007	30	10.1111/j.2007.0906-7590.04994.x
Banavar, JR; Damuth, J; Maritan, A; Rinaldo, A	Scaling in ecosystems and the linkage of macroecological laws	PHYSICAL REVIEW LETTERS	Scaling provides an elegant framework for understanding power-law behavior and deducing relationships between critical exponents. We demonstrate that scaling theory can be generalized to develop a framework for the analysis of diverse empirical macroecological relationships traditionally treated as independent. Our mathematical arguments predict links between the species-area relationship, the relative species abundance and community size spectra in excellent accord with empirical data.	2007	98	10.1103/PhysRevLett.98.068104
Pommier, T; Canback, B; Riemann, L; Bostrom, KH; Simu, K; Lundberg, P; Tunlid, A; Hagstrom, A	Global patterns of diversity and community structure in marine bacterioplankton	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	Because of their small size, great abundance and easy dispersal, it is often assumed that marine planktonic microorganisms have a ubiquitous distribution that prevents any structured assembly into local communities. To challenge this view, marine bacterioplankton communities from coastal waters at nine locations distributed world-wide were examined through the use of comprehensive clone libraries of 16S ribosomal RNA genes, used as operational taxonomic units (OTU). Our survey and analyses show that there were marked differences in the composition and richness of OTUs between locations. Remarkably, the global marine bacterioplankton community showed a high degree of endemism, and conversely included few cosmopolitan OTUs. Our data were consistent with a latitudinal gradient of OTU richness. We observed a positive relationship between the relative OTU abundances and their range of occupation, i.e. cosmopolitans had the largest population sizes. Although OTU richness differed among locations, the distributions of the major taxonomic groups represented in the communities were analogous, and all local communities were similarly structured and dominated by a few OTUs showing variable taxonomic affiliations. The observed patterns of OTU richness indicate that similar evolutionary and ecological processes structured the communities. We conclude that marine bacterioplankton share many of the biogeographical and macroecological features of macroscopic organisms. The general processes behind those patterns are likely to be comparable across taxa and major global biomes.	2007	16	10.1111/j.1365-294X.2006.03189.x
Walker, JJ; Pace, NR	Endolithic microbial ecosystems	ANNUAL REVIEW OF MICROBIOLOGY	The endolithic environment, the pore space in rocks, is a ubiquitous microbial habitat and an interface between biology and geology. Photosynthesis-based endolithic communities inhabit the outer centimeters of rocks exposed to the surface, and offer model systems for microbial ecology, geobiology, and astrobiology. Endolithic ecosystems are among the simplest microbial ecosystems known and as such provide tractable models for testing ecological hypotheses. Such hypotheses have been difficult to test because microbial ecosystems are extraordinarily diverse. We review here recent culture-independent, ribosomal RNA-based studies that evaluate hypotheses about endolithic ecosystems, and provide insight for understanding general principles in microbial ecology. Comparison of endolithic communities supports the principle that patterns of microbial diversity are governed by similar principles observed in macroecological systems. Recent results also explore geobiological processes that shape the current biosphere and potentially provide clues to lifes history on Earth and where to seek life elsewhere in the Solar System.	2007	61	10.1146/annurev.micro.61.080706.093302
Butterfield, NJ	Macroevolution and macroecology through deep time	PALAEONTOLOGY	The fossil record documents two mutually exclusive macroevolutionary modes separated by the transitional Ediacaran Period. Despite the early appearance of crown eukaryotes and an at least partially oxygenated atmosphere, the pre-Ediacaran biosphere was populated almost exclusively by microscopic organisms exhibiting low diversity, no biogeographical partitioning and profound morphological/evolutionary stasis. By contrast, the post-Ediacaran biosphere is characterized by large diverse organisms, bioprovinciality and conspicuously dynamic macroevolution. The difference can be understood in terms of the unique escalatory coevolution accompanying the early Ediacaran introduction of eumetazoans, followed by their early Cambrian (Tommotian) expansion into the pelagic realm. Eumetazoans reinvented the rules of macroecology through their invention of multitrophic food webs, large body size, life-history trade-offs, ecological succession, biogeography, major increases in standing biomass, eukaryote-dominated phytoplankton and the potential for mass extinction. Both the pre-Ediacaran and the post-Ediacaran biospheres were inherently stable, but the former derived from the simplicity of superabundant microbes exposed to essentially static, physical environments, whereas the latter is based on eumetazoan-induced diversity and dynamic, biological environments. The c. 100-myr Ediacaran transition (extending to the base of the Tommotian) can be defined on evolutionary criteria, and might usefully be incorporated into the Phanerozoic.	2007	50	10.1111/j.1475-4983.2006.00613.x
Curtis, TP; Head, IM; Lunn, M; Woodcock, S; Schloss, PD; Sloan, WT	What is the extent of prokaryotic diversity?	PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY B-BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES	The extent of microbial diversity is an intrinsically fascinating subject of profound practical importance. The term diversity may allude to the number of taxa or species richness as well as their relative abundance. There is uncertainty about both, primarily because sample sizes are too small. Non-parametric diversity estimators make gross underestimates if used with small sample sizes on unevenly distributed communities. One can make richness estimates over many scales using small samples by assuming a species/taxa-abundance distribution. However, no one knows what the underlying taxa-abundance distributions are for bacterial communities. Latterly, diversity has been estimated by fitting data from gene clone libraries and extrapolating from this to taxa-abundance curves to estimate richness. However, since sample sizes are small, we cannot be sure that such samples are representative of the community from which they were drawn. It is however possible to formulate, and calibrate, models that predict the diversity of local communities and of samples drawn from that local community. The calibration of such models suggests that migration rates are small and decrease as the community gets larger. The preliminary predictions of the model are qualitatively consistent with the patterns seen in clone libraries in real life. The validation of this model is also confounded by small sample sizes. However, if such models were properly validated, they could form invaluable tools for the prediction of microbial diversity and a basis for the systematic exploration of microbial diversity on the planet.	2006	361	10.1098/rstb.2006.1921
Li, WKW; Harrison, WG; Head, EJH	Coherent assembly of phytoplankton communities in diverse temperate ocean ecosystems	PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY B-BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES	The annual cycle of phytoplankton cell abundance is coherent across diverse ecosystems in the temperate North Atlantic Ocean. In Bedford Basin, on the Scotian Shelf and in the Labrador Sea, the numerical abundance of phytoplankton is low in spring and high in autumn, thus in phase with the temperature cycle. Temperature aligns abundance on a common basis, effectively adjusting apparent cell discrepancies in waters that are colder or warmer than the regional norm. As an example of holistic simplicity arising from underlying complexity, the variance in a community variable (total abundance) is explained by a single predictor (temperature) to the extent of 75% in the marginal seas. In the estuarine basin, weekly averages of phytoplankton and temperature computed from a 13 year time-series yield a predictive relationship with 91% explained variance. Temperature-directed assembly of individual phytoplankton cells to form communities is statistically robust, consistent with observed biomass changes, amenable to theoretical analysis, and a sentinel for long-term change. Since cell abundance is a community property in the same units for all marine microbes at any trophic level and at any phylogenetic position, it promises to integrate biological oceanography into general ecology and evolution.	2006	273	10.1098/rspb.2006.3529
Soininen, J; Heino, J	Relationships between local population persistence, local abundance and regional occupancy of species: distribution patterns of diatoms in boreal streams	JOURNAL OF BIOGEOGRAPHY	Aims We have two aims: (1) to examine the relationship between local population persistence, local abundance and regional occupancy of stream diatoms and (2) to characterize the form of the species-occupancy frequency distribution of stream diatoms. Location Boreal streams in Finland. There were three spatial extents: (1) across ecoregions in Finland, (2) within ecoregions in Finland, and (3) within a single drainage system in southern Finland. Methods Diatoms were sampled from stones (epilithon), sediment (epipelon) and aquatic plants (epiphyton) in streams using standardized sampling methods. To assess population persistence, diatom sampling was conducted monthly at four stream sites from June to October. The relationships between local population persistence, local abundance and regional occupancy were examined using correlation analyses. Results There was a significant positive relationship between local persistence and abundance of diatoms in epilithon, epipelon and epiphyton. Furthermore, local abundance and regional occupancy showed a significant positive relationship at multiple spatial extents; that is, across ecoregions, within ecoregions and within a drainage system. The relationships between occupancy and abundance did not differ appreciably among impacted and near pristine-reference sites. The occupancy-frequency distribution was characterized by a large number of satellite species which occurred at only a few sites, whereas core species that occurred at most sites were virtually absent. Main conclusions The positive relationship between local population persistence and abundance suggested that a high local abundance may prevent local extinction or that high persistence is facilitated by a high local cell density. High local persistence and local abundance may also positively affect the degree of regional occupancy in stream diatoms. The results further showed that anthropogenic effects were probably too weak to bias the relationship between occupancy and abundance, or that the effects have already modified the distribution patterns of stream diatoms. The small number of core species in the species-occupancy frequency distribution suggested that the regional distribution patterns of stream diatoms, or perhaps unicellular microbial organisms in general, may not be fundamentally different from those described previously for multicellular organisms, mainly in terrestrial environments, although average global range sizes may differ sharply between these two broad groups of organisms.	2005	32	10.1111/j.1365-2699.2005.01342.x
Noguez, AM; Arita, HT; Escalante, AE; Forney, LJ; Garcia-Oliva, F; Souza, V	Microbial macroecology: highly structured prokaryotic soil assemblages in a tropical deciduous forest	GLOBAL ECOLOGY AND BIOGEOGRAPHY	Aim To assess the hypothesis that free-living prokaryotes show a pattern of no biogeography by examining the scaling of soil prokaryotic diversity and by comparing it with other groups biogeographical patterns. Location Two sites in the tropical deciduous forest of Chamela, Jalisco, on the western coast of Mexico. Methods We examined the diversity and distribution of soil prokaryotes in two 8 x 8 m quadrats divided in such manner that we could sample at four spatial scales. Restriction fragment length polymorphisms of 16S rRNA genes were used to define operational taxonomic units (OTUs) that we used in lieu of species to assess diversity. Results We found highly structured species assemblages that allowed us to reject multiple predictions of the hypothesis that soil bacteria show no biogeography. The frequency distribution of range size (measured as the occupancy of quadrats) of OTUs followed a hollow curve similar to that of vertebrates on continents. Assemblages showed high levels of beta diversity and a non-random nested pattern of diversity. OTU diversity scaled with area followed a power function with slopes z = 0.42 and 0.47. Main conclusions We demonstrate a non-ubiquitous dispersal for soil prokaryotes, which suggests a complex biogeography similar to that found for terrestrial vertebrates.	2005	14	10.1111/j.1466-822x.2005.00156.x
Li, WKW; Head, EJH; Harrison, WG	Macroecological limits of heterotrophic bacterial abundance in the ocean	DEEP-SEA RESEARCH PART I-OCEANOGRAPHIC RESEARCH PAPERS	The global association between heterotrophic bacteria and phytoplankton in the open ocean was examined to identify the macroecological limits of bacterial abundance. A consolidated dataset was constructed using 13,973 paired measurements of bacterial abundance and chlorophyll concentration from 15 years of observation in various biogeochemical provinces covering the Atlantic, Pacific, Arctic and Antarctic Oceans as well as the Arabian Sea. The bivariate relationship between bacteria and chlorophyll is a filled polygon whose upper boundary undergoes a change in slope from positive to negative at about 1 mgChl m(-3), suggesting a transition from bottom-up to top-down control of bacteria along a resource supply gradient. The upper limit of bacterial abundance in the ocean is everywhere set by phytoplankton, but the limit is not realized in productive waters because of mortality losses. A carrying capacity of about 7 trillion bacteria for 1 mg of chlorophyll is indicated by empirical observations, consistent with theoretical considerations and predictions from food web modelling. Crown Copyright (C) 2004 Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2004	51	10.1016/j.dsr.2004.06.012
Li, WKW	Macroecological patterns of phytoplankton in the northwestern North Atlantic Ocean	NATURE	Many issues in biological oceanography are regional or global in scope 1; however, there are not many data sets of extensive areal coverage for marine plankton. In microbial ecology, a fruitful approach to large-scale questions is comparative analysis(2,3) wherein statistical data patterns are sought from different ecosystems, frequently assembled from unrelated studies(4). A more recent approach termed macroecology characterizes phenomena emerging from large numbers of biological units by emphasizing the shapes and boundaries of statistical distributions, because these reflect the constraints on variation(5). Here, I use a set of flow cytometric measurements to provide macroecological perspectives on North Atlantic phytoplankton communities. Distinct trends of abundance in picophytoplankton and both small and large nanophytoplankton underlaid two patterns. First, total abundance of the three groups was related to assemblage mean-cell size according to the 3/4 power law of allometric scaling in biology(6,7). Second, cytometric diversity(8) (an ataxonomic measure of assemblage entropy) was maximal at intermediate levels of water column stratification(9). Here, intermediate disturbance shapes diversity through an equitable distribution of cells in size classes, from which arises a high overall biomass. By subsuming local fluctuations, macroecology reveals meaningful patterns of phytoplankton at large scales.	2002	419	10.1038/nature00994
Amann, R; Ludwig, W	Ribosomal RNA-targeted nucleic acid probes for studies in microbial ecology	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY REVIEWS	With readily applicable hybridization assays, mainly based on rRNA-targeted nucleic acid probes, and direct, cultivation-independent sequence retrieval, microbiologists call for the first time determine the true composition of microbial communities. Phylogenetic identification and exact spatiotemporal quantification of microorganisms will in the future become prerequisites for high duality studies in microbial ecology just as good taxonomy and solid quantification have always been for macroecology. This review is intended to give a short history of the development of rRNA-targeted nucleic acid probes and probe technologies, as well as of their application in microbial ecology. The current state of the art is described. and we will try to look into the future. Over the last decade, rRNA-targeted probes have become a handy tool for microbial ecologists. In order to speed up the transformation of microbial ecology from a mostly descriptive to a hypothesis-driven, experimental science more intense use must be made of the taxonomic precision and quantitativeness of rRNA-targeted probes. (C) 2000 Federation of European Microbiological Societies. Published by Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.	2000	24	
