AU	TI	SO	AB	PY	VL	DI
Wang, XB; Lu, XT; Yao, J; Wang, ZW; Deng, Y; Cheng, WX; Zhou, JZ; Han, XG	Habitat-specific patterns and drivers of bacterial beta-diversity in Chinas drylands	ISME JOURNAL	The existence of biogeographic patterns among most free-living microbial taxa has been well established, yet little is known about the underlying mechanisms that shape these patterns. Here, we examined soil bacterial beta-diversity across different habitats in the drylands of northern China. We evaluated the relative importance of environmental factors versus geographic distance to a distance-decay relationship, which would be explained by the relative effect of basic ecological processes recognized as drivers of diversity patterns in macrobial theoretical models such as selection and dispersal. Although the similarity of bacterial communities significantly declined with increasing geographic distance, the distance-decay slope and the relative importance of factors driving distance-decay patterns varied across different habitats. A strong distance-decay relationship was observed in the alpine grassland, where the community similarity was influenced only by the environmental factors. In contrast, geographic distance was solely responsible for community similarity in the desert. Even the average compositional similarity among locations in the desert was distinctly lower compared with those in other habitats. We found no evidence that dispersal limitation strongly influenced the beta-diversity of bacterial communities in the desert grassland and typical grassland. Together, our results provide robust evidence of habitat specificity for microbial diversity patterns and their underlying drivers. Our findings suggest that microorganisms also have multiple drivers of diversity patterns and some of which may be parallel to some fundamental processes for explaining biodiversity patterns in macroorganisms.	2017	11	10.1038/ismej.2017.11
Dai, WF; Zhang, JJ; Tu, QC; Deng, Y; Qiu, QF; Xiong, JB	Bacterioplankton assembly and interspecies interaction indicating increasing coastal eutrophication	CHEMOSPHERE	Anthropogenic perturbations impose negative effects on coastal ecosystems, such as increasing levels of eutrophication. Given the biogeochemical significance of microorganisms, understanding the processes and mechanisms underlying their spatial distribution under changing environmental conditions is critical. To address this question, we examined how coastal bacterioplanlcton communities respond to increasing eutrophication levels created by anthropogenic perturbations. The results showed that the magnitude of changes in the bacterioplankton community compositions (BCCs) and the importance of deterministic processes that constrained bacterial assembly were closely associated with eutrophication levels. Moreover, increasing eutrophication significantly (P < 0.001) attenuated the distance decay rate, with a random spatial distribution of BCCs in the undisturbed location. In contrast, the complexity of interspecies interaction was enhanced under moderate eutrophication levels but declined under heavy eutrophication. Changes in the relative abundances of 27 bacterial families were significantly correlated with eutrophication levels. Notably, the pattern of enrichment or decrease for a given bacterial family was consistent with its known ecological functions. Our findings demonstrate that the magnitude of changes in BCCs and underlying determinism are dependent on eutrophication levels. However, the buffer capacity of bacterioplankton community is limited, with disrupted interspecies interaction occurring under heavy eutrophication. As such, bacterial assemblages are sensitive to changes in environmental conditions and could thus potentially serve as bio-indicators for increasing eutrophication. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2017	177	10.1016/j.chemosphere.2017.03.034
Yao, MJ; Rui, JP; Niu, HS; Hedenec, P; Li, JB; He, ZL; Wang, JM; Cao, WD; Li, XZ	The differentiation of soil bacterial communities along a precipitation and temperature gradient in the eastern Inner Mongolia steppe	CATENA	Understanding the differentiation of soil bacterial communities under precipitation and temperature gradients is crucial for assessing the impacts of environmental filters on ecosystem structure and function. Here we investigated spatial variations of bacterial communities along a precipitation and temperature transect in the eastern Inner Mongolia steppe, China. The aims are to understand the biogeographic pattern and key drivers shaping soil bacterial communities along the transect. Our results shoved that the soil bacterial community along the 451-km transect exhibited the distance-decay relationship, decreasing in community similarity with geographic distance. Obvious changes in the bacterial community structure occurred at an annual precipitation from 215 to 261 mm, which was close to the boundary between arid and semi-arid systems. The relative abundances of Proteobacteria, Bacteroidetes, and Acidobacteria increased with precipitation, while those of Actinobacteria, Chloroflexi, and Gemmatimonadetes decreased. Environmental filtering was observed to be the key in shaping bacterial biogeographic patterns, and climate conditions exert indirect effects on soil bacterial communities mainly through direct effects on soil properties. Soil pH and plant coverage were important to soil bacterial communities in both arid and semi-arid steppes. Our findings provided insights for understanding the linkages among geographic distance, environmental filters, and soil bacterial communities in Eurasian steppe ecosystems. (C) 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2017	152	10.1016/j.catena.2017.01.007
Zhao, F; Xu, KD	Distribution of Ciliates in Intertidal Sediments across Geographic Distances: A Molecular View	PROTIST	The estimation of the diversity and geographic distribution of protists in particular ciliates has long been an ongoing debate. We estimated the distribution of ciliates in intertidal sediments with geographic distance ranging from 10 cm to 1,000 km, using high-throughput DNA sequencing. Higher community similarity, in particular that of rare ciliate taxa, occurred between replicates than between sites. Statistical analyses showed that the community dissimilarities of both abundant and moderately abundant ciliates had correlations with geographic distance at the scales of 50 m, 200 km and 1000 km, indicating a distance-decay relationship. No significant correlation was observed for rare taxa. The analysis of Bray-Curtis similarity showed a higher pairwise community similarity in abundant taxa than in moderately abundant taxa, and that in rare taxa was the lowest. Abundant taxa usually can disperse in a wider range than rare taxa, though their distribution is restricted by distance to some extent. Rare taxa are potentially more sensitive to changing environments, but no distance-decay relationship could be observed. The data indicate contrasting patterns of geographic distribution of the abundant and rare ciliate taxa and a weak distance-decay relationship for relatively abundant taxa at a scale over 50 m. (C) 2017 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.	2017	168	10.1016/j.protis.2017.01.001
Djurhuus, A; Mikalsen, SO; Giebel, HA; Rogers, AD	Cutting through the smoke: the diversity of microorganisms in deep-sea hydrothermal plumes	ROYAL SOCIETY OPEN SCIENCE	There are still notable gaps regarding the detailed distribution of microorganisms between and within insular habitats such as deep-sea hydrothermal vents. This study investigates the community composition of black smoker vent microorganisms in the Southern Hemisphere, and changes thereof along a spatial and chemical gradient ranging from the vent plume to surrounding waters. We sampled two hydrothermal vent fields, one at the South West Indian Ridge (SWIR), the other at the East Scotia Ridge (ESR). Samples were collected across vent fields at varying vertical distances from the origin of the plumes. The microbial data were sequenced on an Illumina MiSeq platform for the 16SrRNA gene. A substantial amount of vent-specific putative chemosynthetic microorganisms were found, particularly in samples from focused hydrothermal venting. Common vent-specific organisms from both vent fields were the genera Arcobacter, Caminibacter and Sulfurimonas from the Epsilonproteobacteria and the SUP05 group from the Gammaproteobacteria. There were no major differences in microbial composition between SWIR and ESR for focused plume samples. However, within the ESR the diffuse flow and focused samples differed significantly in microbial community composition and relative abundance. For Epsilonproteobacteria, we found evidence of niche-specificity to hydrothermal vent environments. This taxon decreased in abundance by three orders of magnitude from the vent orifice to background water. Epsilonproteobacteria distribution followed a distance-decay relationship as vent-effluents mixed with the surrounding seawater. This study demonstrates strong habitat affinity of vent microorganisms on a metre scale with distinct environmental selection.	2017	4	10.1098/rsos.160829
Liao, JQ; Cao, XF; Wang, J; Zhao, L; Sun, JH; Jiang, DL; Huang, Y	Similar community assembly mechanisms underlie similar biogeography of rare and abundant bacteria in lakes on Yungui Plateau, China	LIMNOLOGY AND OCEANOGRAPHY	The revolution of molecular techniques in the field of microbial ecology not only allows an in-depth exploration of abundant bacteria, but also confirms the existence of rare biosphere. However, the mechanisms underlying the assembly process of abundant and rare bacteria in plateau lakes are still poorly understood. In the present study, distribution of abundant and rare bacteria in 21 lakes on Yungui Plateau, China and the relative importance of deterministic and neutral factors to their biogeographic patterns were examined. Results surprisingly showed that similar biogeographic patterns of rare and abundant taxa were generally shaped via similar assembly mechanisms. For both bacterial groups, deterministic process strongly influenced the distribution, while neutral process was not at play. In addition, they both exhibited a weak distance-decay relationship. Nevertheless, environmental drivers of rare and abundant taxa and their importance were not exactly the same. Water physicochemical property was the most dominant driver shaping the biogeographic pattern of rare taxa, followed by lake morphology and watershed land-use, while for abundant taxa, watershed land-use was the most dominant driver and lake morphology did not play a significant role. This study suggested that rare bacteria in high-altitude aquatic ecosystems might experience equally low extinction risk and respond to environmental changes in a similar manner to abundant ones, but their ecological niches and functions were not identical. To fully understand the assembly mechanism of bacterial community, it is necessary to differentiate the community by traits of taxa.	2017	62	10.1002/lno.10455
Marino, CM; Pawlik, JR; Lopez-Legentil, S; Erwin, PM	Latitudinal variation in the microbiome of the sponge Ircinia campana correlates with host haplotype but not anti-predatory chemical defense	MARINE ECOLOGY PROGRESS SERIES	Many marine sponges host diverse symbiotic microbial communities that have been implicated in the production of secondary metabolites. These metabolites may defend the host sponge from potential predators. Variability in symbiont communities across the range of the host sponge could alter levels of chemical defense. To investigate the relationship between symbiont composition and chemical defense, the microbiomes and palatability of tissue samples from Ircinia campana were characterized from 5 sites along a latitudinal gradient spanning temperate (South Atlantic Bight, SAB) and tropical (Caribbean) regions. Terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis and Illumina sequencing of 16S ribosomal RNA genes revealed that I. campana from different locations contained significantly distinct microbiomes and exhibited a consistent relationship of lower symbiont similarity over greater geographic distance (i.e. distance-decay). However, crude organic extracts of all samples of I. campana were unpalatable to assay fish Thalassoma bifasciatum in laboratory assays, indicating no difference in chemical defense across locations. Distinct haplotypes of I. campana were detected in populations from the SAB and Caribbean, correlating with the observed patterns of latitudinal variation in microbial symbiont communities. Our findings indicate that I. campana is chemically defended from fish predators across the range of the species and that latitudinal variation occurs in the microbiome of I. campana, driven by a combination of host-specific factors and region-specific environmental filtering of symbiont communities.	2017	565	10.3354/meps12015
Manrique, JM; Jones, LR	Are ocean currents to slow to counteract SAR11 evolution? A next-generation sequencing, phylogeographic analysis	MOLECULAR PHYLOGENETICS AND EVOLUTION	This work set out to shed light on the phylogeography of the SAR11 Glade of Alphaproteobacteria, which is probably the most abundant group of heterotrophic bacteria on Earth. In particular, we assessed the degree to which empirical evidence (environmental DNA sequences) supports the concept that SAR11 lineages evolve faster than they are dispersed thus generating vicariant distributions, as predicted by recent simulation efforts. We generated 16S rRNA gene sequences from surface seawater collected at the South West Atlantic Ocean and combined these data with previously published sequences from similar environments from elsewhere. Altogether, these data consisted in about 1e6 reads, from which we generated 355,306 high quality sequences of which 95,318 corresponded to SAR11. Quantitative phylogeographic analyses supported the existence of a spatially explicit distribution of SAR11 species and provided evidence in favor of the idea that dispersal limitations significantly contribute to SAR11 radiation throughout the worlds oceans. Likewise, pairwise phylogenetic distances between the communities studied here were significantly correlated with the genetic divergences predicted by a previously proposed neutral model. As discussed in the paper, these findings are compatible with the concept that the ocean surface constitutes a homogeneous environment for SAR11, in agreement with previous experimental data. We discuss the implications of this hypothesis in a global change scenario. This is the first study combining high throughput sequencing and phylogenic analysis to study bacterial phylogeography and reporting a distance decay pattern of phylogenetic distances for bacteria. (C) 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.	2017	107	10.1016/j.ympev.2016.11.015
Glassman, SI; Lubetkin, KC; Chung, JA; Bruns, TD	The theory of island biogeography applies to ectomycorrhizal fungi in subalpine tree islands at a fine scale	ECOSPHERE	The theory of island biogeography, which predicts that species richness is a function of island size and distance from the mainland, is well tested with macro-fauna and flora. Yet, in many ways, microbes are more appropriate for testing this and other ecological theories due to their small size and short generation times that translate to an ease of replication. We used a natural experimental system of isolated host islands to test the generality of the theory of island biogeography. Specifically, we tested whether ectomycorrhizal fungal (EMF) richness increased with tree size and decreased with distance from forest in a subalpine basin in Yosemite National Park for two congeneric pine species, Pinus albicaulis and Pinus contorta. We determined EMF richness with next-generation sequencing, measured the size and age of each tree island (n = 40), and calculated geographic distances from each tree to the nearest forest edge. We found that EMF richness increased with island size (as measured by tree volume) and tree age for both pine species and decreased with distance from forest edge for P. albicaulis. Thus, we show the applicability of the theory to microbial symbionts in harsh, dry, and likely non-equilibrium systems. In addition, we found that despite the fact that our tree islands had a mean age of 65 yr, a pioneer community of EMF dominated. We interpret this as evidence that water stress interacts with succession to create a sustained period of early-stage fungi even in mature trees.	2017	8	10.1002/ecs2.1677
Niu, LH; Li, Y; Xu, LL; Wang, PF; Zhang, WL; Wang, C; Cai, W; Wang, LQ	Ignored fungal community in activated sludge wastewater treatment plants: diversity and altitudinal characteristics	ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE AND POLLUTION RESEARCH	Fungi are important contributors to the various functions of activated sludge wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs); however, the diversity and geographic characteristics of fungal populations have remained vastly unexplored. Here, quantitative polymerase chain reaction and 454 pyrosequencingwere combined to investigate the abundance and diversity of the activated sludge fungal communities from 18 full-scale municipal WWTPs in China. Phylogenetic taxonomy revealed that the members of the fungal communities were assigned to 7 phyla and 195 genera. Ascomycota and Basidiomycota were the most abundant phyla, dominated by Pluteus, Wickerhamiella, and Penicillium. Twenty-three fungal genera, accounting for 50.1 % of the total reads, were shared by 18 WWTPs and constituted a core fungal community. The fungal communities presented similar communitydiversitybut different community structures across the WWTPs. Significant distance decay relationships were observed for the dissimilarity in fungal community structure and altitudinal distance between WWTPs. Additionally, the community evenness increased from 0.25 to 0.7 as the altitude increased. Dissolved oxygen and the C/N ratio were determined to be the most dominant contributors to the variation in fungal community structure via redundancy analysis. The observed data demonstrated the diverse occurrence of fungal species and gave a marked view of fungal community characteristics based on the previously unexplored fungal communities in activated sludge WWTPs.	2017	24	10.1007/s11356-016-8137-4
Durrer, A; Gumiere, T; Taketani, RG; da Costa, DP; Silva, MDPE; Andreote, FD	The drivers underlying biogeographical patterns of bacterial communities in soils under sugarcane cultivation	APPLIED SOIL ECOLOGY	The exploration of microbiomes has been posited as one of the pillars for innovative technologies to improve plant health and production. Agriculture is a promising area for this exploration as soils harbor vast and diverse microbial communities. A better understanding of the drivers influencing microbial biogeographical patterns is necessary to properly exploit this resource. Here, we aimed to describe biogeographical patterns of bacterial communities across a broad spatial scale by sampling soils in 10 distinct farms (a total of 285 soil samples) located at the most important region for sugarcane production in Brazil. Bacterial communities were analyzed in terms of community structure and composition and further correlated with soil characteristics, agricultural practices and geographical distances. Distance decay patterns were found either at the bacterial community level (as determined by T-RFLP and sequencing analyses) and at the distribution of most bacterial phyla. Partial redundancy analysis revealed that soil characteristics (i.e., pH, granulometry, potassium and phosphorus contents) and agricultural practices (i.e., amendments of vinasse, charcoal and mechanical harvesting) explained the differential structuring of bacterial communities to a higher extend than did geographical distance. The co-occurrence/mutual-exclusion analysis suggested a role of biological connections in these assemblages, such as the co-occurrence of Proteobacteria and Acidobacteria, both negatively correlated with Actinobacteria. Our data constitute the broadest assessment of biogeographical patterns of bacterial communities across agricultural soils. Collectively, it indicates that these bacterial assemblages are suitable for management, what support the development of microbiome-based strategies in agricultural settings. (C) 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2017	110	10.1016/j.apsoil.2016.11.005
Taketani, RG; Lanconi, MD; Kavamura, VN; Durrer, A; Andreote, FD; Melo, IS	Dry Season Constrains Bacterial Phylogenetic Diversity in a Semi-Arid Rhizosphere System	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	The rhizosphere is viewed as a deterministic environment led by the interaction between plants and microorganisms. In the case of semi-arid plants, this interaction is strengthened by the harshness of the environment. We tested the hypothesis that dry season represents a constraint on the bacterial diversity of the rhizosphere from semi-arid plants. To accomplish this, we sampled two leguminous species at five locations during the dry and rainy seasons in the Caatinga biome and characterised bacterial community structures using qPCR and 16S rRNA sequencing. We found that the main differences between seasons were due to reduced phylogenetic diversity caused by dryness. Variation partitioning indicated that environmental characteristics significant impacts in beta-diversity. Additionally, distance decay relationship and taxa area relationship indicate a higher spatial turnover at the rainy season. During the dry season, decreased bacterial abundance is likely due to the selection of resistant or resilient microorganisms; with the return of the rain, the sensitive populations start to colonise the rhizosphere by a process that is strongly influenced by environmental characteristics. Thus, we propose that the reduction of PD and strong influence of environmental parameters on the assemblage of these communities make them prone to functional losses caused by climatic disturbances.	2017	73	10.1007/s00248-016-0835-4
Ping, YA; Han, DX; Wang, N; Hu, YB; Mu, LQ; Feng, FJ	Vertical zonation of soil fungal community structure in a Korean pine forest on Changbai Mountain, China	WORLD JOURNAL OF MICROBIOLOGY & BIOTECHNOLOGY	Changbai Mountain, with intact montane vertical vegetation belts, is located at a sensitive area of global climate change and a central distribution area of Korean pine forest. Broad-leaved Korean pine mixed forest (Pinus koraiensis as an edificator) is the most representative zonal climax vegetation in the humid region of northeastern China; their vertical zonation is the most intact and representative on Changbai Mountain. In this study, we analyzed the composition and diversity of soil fungal communities in the Korean pine forest on Changbai Mountain at elevations ranging from 699 to 1177 m using Illumina High-throughput sequencing. We obtained a total 186,663 optimized sequences, with an average length of 268.81 bp. We found soil fungal diversity index was decreased with increasing elevation from 699 to 937 m and began to rise after reaching 1044 m; the richness and evenness indices were decreased with an increase in elevation. Soil fungal compositions at the phylum, class and genus levels varied significantly at different elevations, but with the same dominant fungi. Beta-diversity analysis indicated that the similarity of fungal communities decreased with an increased vertical distance between the sample plots, showing a distance-decay relationship. Variation partition analysis showed that geographic distance (mainly elevation gradient) only explained 20.53 % of the total variation of fungal community structure, while soil physicochemical factors explained 69.78 %.	2017	33	10.1007/s11274-016-2133-1
Wang, JJ; Pan, FY; Soininen, J; Heino, J; Shen, J	Nutrient enrichment modifies temperature-biodiversity relationships in large-scale field experiments	NATURE COMMUNICATIONS	Climate effects and human impacts, that is, nutrient enrichment, simultaneously drive spatial biodiversity patterns. However, there is little consensus about their independent effects on biodiversity. Here we manipulate nutrient enrichment in aquatic microcosms in subtropical and subarctic regions (China and Norway, respectively) to show clear segregation of bacterial species along temperature gradients, and decreasing alpha and gamma diversity toward higher nutrients. The temperature dependence of species richness is greatest at extreme nutrient levels, whereas the nutrient dependence of species richness is strongest at intermediate temperatures. For species turnover rates, temperature effects are strongest at intermediate and two extreme ends of nutrient gradients in subtropical and subarctic regions, respectively. Species turnover rates caused by nutrients do not increase toward higher temperatures. These findings illustrate direct effects of temperature and nutrients on biodiversity, and indirect effects via primary productivity, thus providing insights into how nutrient enrichment could alter biodiversity under future climate scenarios.	2016	7	10.1038/ncomms13960
Beaton, ED; Stevenson, BS; King-Sharp, KJ; Stamps, BW; Nunn, HS; Stuart, M	Local and Regional Diversity Reveals Dispersal Limitation and Drift as Drivers for Groundwater Bacterial Communities from a Fractured Granite Formation	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Microorganisms found in terrestrial subsurface environments make up a large proportion of the Earths biomass. Biogeochemical cycles catalyzed by subsurface microbes have the potential to influence the speciation and transport of radionuclides managed in geological repositories. To gain insight on factors that constrain microbial processes within a formation with restricted groundwater flow we performed a meta-community analysis on groundwater collected from multiple discrete fractures underlying the Chalk River Laboratories site (located in Ontario, Canada). Bacterial taxa were numerically dominant in the groundwater. Although these were mainly uncultured, the closest cultivated representatives were from the phenotypically diverse Betaproteobacteria, Deltaproteobacteria, Bacteroidetes, Actinobacteria, Nitrospirae, and Firmicutes. Hundreds of taxa were identified but only a few were found in abundance (>1%) across all assemblages. The remainder of the taxa were low abundance. Within an ecological framework of selection, dispersal and drift, the local and regional diversity revealed fewer taxa within each assemblage relative to the meta community, but the taxa that were present were more related than predicted by chance. The combination of dispersion at one phylogenetic depth and clustering at another phylogenetic depth suggest both niche (dispersion) and filtering (clustering) as drivers of local assembly. Distance decay of similarity reveals apparent biogeography of 1.5 km. Beta diversity revealed greater influence of selection at shallow sampling locations while the influences of dispersal limitation and randomness were greater at deeper sampling locations. Although selection has shaped each assemblage, the spatial scale of groundwater sampling favored detection of neutral processes over selective processes. Dispersal limitation between assemblages combined with local selection means the meta-community is subject to drift, and therefore, likely reflects the differential historical events that have influenced the current bacterial composition. Categorizing the study site into smaller regions of interest of more closely spaced fractures, or of potentially hydraulically connected fractures, might improve the resolution of an analysis to reveal environmental influences that have shaped these bacterial communities.	2016	7	10.3389/fmicb.2016.01933
Choudoir, MJ; Doroghazi, JR; Buckley, DH	Latitude delineates patterns of biogeography in terrestrial Streptomyces	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	The biogeography of Streptomyces was examined at regional spatial scales to identify factors that govern patterns of microbial diversity. Streptomyces are spore forming filamentous bacteria which are widespread in soil. Streptomyces strains were isolated from perennial grass habitats sampled across a spatial scale of more than 6000 km. Previous analysis of this geographically explicit culture collection provided evidence for a latitudinal diversity gradient in Streptomyces species. Here the hypothesis that this latitudinal diversity gradient is a result of evolutionary dynamics associated with historical demographic processes was evaluated. Historical demographic phenomena have genetic consequences that can be evaluated through analysis of population genetics. Population genetic approaches were applied to analyze population structure in six of the most numerically abundant and geographically widespread Streptomyces phylogroups from our culture collection. Streptomyces population structure varied at regional spatial scales, and allelic diversity correlated with geographic distance. In addition, allelic diversity and gene flow are partitioned by latitude. Finally, it was found that nucleotide diversity within phylogroups was negatively correlated with latitude. These results indicate that phylogroup diversification is constrained by dispersal limitation at regional spatial scales, and they are consistent with the hypothesis that historical demographic processes have influenced the contemporary biogeography of Streptomyces.	2016	18	10.1111/1462-2920.13420
Zhang, B; Xia, Y; Wen, XH; Wang, XH; Yang, YF; Zhou, JZ; Zhang, Y	The Composition and Spatial Patterns of Bacterial Virulence Factors and Antibiotic Resistance Genes in 19 Wastewater Treatment Plants	PLOS ONE	Bacterial pathogenicity and antibiotic resistance are of concern for environmental safety and public health. Accumulating evidence suggests that wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs) are as an important sink and source of pathogens and antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs). Virulence genes (encoding virulence factors) are good indicators for bacterial pathogenic potentials. To achieve a comprehensive understanding of bacterial pathogenic potentials and antibiotic resistance in WWTPs, bacterial virulence genes and ARGs in 19 WWTPs covering a majority of latitudinal zones of China were surveyed by using GeoChip 4.2. A total of 1610 genes covering 13 virulence factors and 1903 genes belonging to 11 ARG families were detected respectively. The bacterial virulence genes exhibited significant spatial distribution patterns of a latitudinal biodiversity gradient and a distance-decay relationship across China. Moreover, virulence genes tended to coexist with ARGs as shown by their strongly positive associations. In addition, key environmental factors shaping the overall virulence gene structure were identified. This study profiles the occurrence, composition and distribution of virulence genes and ARGs in current WWTPs in China, and uncovers spatial patterns and important environmental variables shaping their structure, which may provide the basis for further studies of bacterial virulence factors and antibiotic resistance in WWTPs.	2016	11	10.1371/journal.pone.0167422
Bacaro, G; Altobelli, A; Cameletti, M; Ciccarelli, D; Martellos, S; Palmer, MW; Ricotta, C; Rocchini, D; Scheiner, SM; Tordoni, E; Chiarucci, A	Incorporating spatial autocorrelation in rarefaction methods: Implications for ecologists and conservation biologists	ECOLOGICAL INDICATORS	Recently, methods for constructing Spatially Explicit Rarefaction (SER) curves have been introduced in the scientific literature to describe the relation between the recorded species richness and sampling effort and taking into account for the spatial autocorrelation in the data. Despite these-methodological advances, the use of SERs has not become routine and ecologists continue to use rarefaction methods that are not spatially explicit. Using two study cases from Italian vegetation surveys, we demonstrate that classic rarefaction methods that do not account for spatial structure can produce inaccurate results. Furthermore, our goal in this paper is to demonstrate how SERs can overcome the problem of spatial autocorrelation in the analysis of plant or animal communities. Our analyses demonstrate that using a spatially-explicit method for constructing rarefaction curves can substantially alter estimates of relative species richness. For both analyzed data sets, we found that the rank ordering of standardized species richness estimates was reversed between the two methods. We strongly advise the use of Spatially Explicit Rarefaction methods when analyzing biodiversity: the inclusion of spatial autocorrelation into rarefaction analyses can substantially alter conclusions and change the way We might prioritize or manage nature reserves. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2016	69	10.1016/j.ecolind.2016.04.026
Dai, TJ; Zhang, Y; Tang, YS; Bai, YH; Tao, YL; Huang, B; Wen, DH	Identifying the key taxonomic categories that characterize microbial community diversity using full-scale classification: a case study of microbial communities in the sediments of Hangzhou Bay	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Coastal areas are land-sea transitional zones with complex natural and anthropogenic disturbances. Microorganisms in coastal sediments adapt to such disturbances both individually and as a community. The microbial community structure changes spatially and temporally under environmental stress. In this study, we investigated the microbial community structure in the sediments of Hangzhou Bay, a seriously polluted bay in China. In order to identify the roles and contribution of all microbial taxa, we set thresholds as 0.1% for rare taxa and 1% for abundant taxa, and classified all operational taxonomic units into six exclusive categories based on their abundance. The results showed that the key taxa in differentiating the communities are abundant taxa (AT), conditionally abundant taxa (CAT), and conditionally rare or abundant taxa (CRAT). A large population in conditionally rare taxa (CRT) made this category collectively significant in differentiating the communities. Both bacteria and archaea demonstrated a distance decay pattern of community similarity in the bay, and this pattern was strengthened by rare taxa, CRT and CRAT, but weakened by AT and CAT. This implied that the low abundance taxa were more deterministically distributed, while the high abundance taxa were more ubiquitously distributed.Based on a full-scale microbial taxa classification, the roles and contributions of key taxonomic categories in maintaining and altering microbial community structures in the sediments of Hangzhou Bay were recognized.Based on a full-scale microbial taxa classification, the roles and contributions of key taxonomic categories in maintaining and altering microbial community structures in the sediments of Hangzhou Bay were recognized.	2016	92	10.1093/femsec/fiw150
Johansen, RB; Johnston, P; Mieczkowski, P; Perry, GLW; Robeson, MS; Burns, BR; Vilgalys, R	A native and an invasive dune grass share similar, patchily distributed, root-associated fungal communities	FUNGAL ECOLOGY	Fungi are ubiquitous occupiers of plant roots, yet the impact of host identity on fungal community composition is not well understood. Invasive plants may benefit from reduced pathogen impact when competing with native plants, but suffer if mutualists are unavailable. Root samples of the invasive dune grass Ammophila arenaria and the native dune grass Leymus mollis were collected from a Californian foredune. We utilised the Illumina MiSeq platform to sequence the ITS and LSU gene regions, with the SSU region used to target arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF). The two plant species largely share a fungal community, which is dominated by widespread generalists. Fungi detected on only one species were rare, accounting for a small proportion of the data. The SSU region recovered AMF from more samples and from more Glomeromycota lineages than ITS or LSU. A high degree of turnover among samples was observed, but there was no evidence for strong distance-decay. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd and British Mycological Society. All rights reserved.	2016	23	10.1016/j.funeco.2016.08.003
Teittinen, A; Kallajoki, L; Meier, S; Stigzelius, T; Soininen, J	The roles of elevation and local environmental factors as drivers of diatom diversity in subarctic streams	FRESHWATER BIOLOGY	High latitude and altitude freshwater systems are highly sensitive to the effects of global warming and associated environmental changes. Diatoms are widely used as sentinels of environmental change, yet knowledge of diatom community patterns in high latitude and altitude streams remains limited. The aim of this study was to examine alpha and beta diversity of diatoms in subarctic streams in Finland and Norway, and to determine the importance of local environmental factors and elevation in shaping their community patterns. We also aimed at testing, for the first time, whether microbes conform to Rapoports elevational rule, which states that species occurring at higher elevations have generally larger elevational ranges than species at lower elevations. Three streams (44 sites in total) with an altitudinal gradient of 21-877m a.s.l. were sampled. Generalized linear models, hierarchical partitioning, and a boosted regression tree method were used to identify drivers of diatom species richness. We ran Mantel tests, and calculated initial similarities and elevational halving distances to examine beta diversity. There were no apparent richness-elevation relationships within streams. Across all study streams, the water depth was the most important factor for richness, with additional influences by stone size, conductivity, pH and elevation. Diatoms in subarctic streams did not conform to Rapoports elevational rule. Community similarity decreased significantly with elevational distance while distance decay was weaker with environmental distance. Our results suggest that diatom alpha and beta diversity along stream elevational gradients are shaped by interacting local environmental factors such as water depth and substrate size, indicating vulnerability of diatoms to physical disturbances, and regional factors such as dispersal and geographical variables. Diatom diversity patterns do not seem to concur with patterns often observed for larger organisms as no consistent elevational patterns in richness or range sizes were found.	2016	61	10.1111/fwb.12791
Lokmer, A; Goedknegt, MA; Thieltges, DW; Fiorentino, D; Kuenzel, S; Baines, JF; Wegner, KM	Spatial and Temporal Dynamics of Pacific Oyster Hemolymph Microbiota across Multiple Scales	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Unveiling the factors and processes that shape the dynamics of host associated microbial communities (microbiota) under natural conditions is an important part of understanding and predicting an organisms response to a changing environment. The microbiota is shaped by host (i.e., genetic) factors as well as by the biotic and abiotic environment. Studying natural variation of microbial community composition in multiple host genetic backgrounds across spatial as well as temporal scales represents a means to untangle this complex interplay. Here, we combined a spatially-stratified with a longitudinal sampling scheme within differentiated host genetic backgrounds by reciprocally transplanting Pacific oysters between two sites in the Wadden Sea (Sylt and Texel). To further differentiate contingent site from host genetic effects, we repeatedly sampled the same individuals over a summer season to examine structure, diversity and dynamics of individual hemolymph microbiota following experimental removal of resident microbiota by antibiotic treatment. While a large proportion of microbiome variation could be attributed to immediate environmental conditions, we observed persistent effects of antibiotic treatment and translocation suggesting that hemolymph microbial community dynamics is subject to within-microbiome interactions and host population specific factors. In addition, the analysis of spatial variation revealed that the within-site microenvironmental heterogeneity resulted in high small-scale variability, as opposed to large-scale (between-site) stability. Similarly, considerable within-individual temporal variability was in contrast with the overall temporal stability at the site level. Overall, our longitudinal, spatially-stratified sampling design revealed that variation in hemolymph microbiota is strongly influenced by site and immediate environmental conditions, whereas internal microbiome dynamics and oyster-related factors add to their long-term stability. The combination of small and large scale resolution of spatial and temporal observations therefore represents a crucial but underused tool to study host-associated microbiome dynamics.	2016	7	10.3389/fmicb.2016.01367
Barnes, CJ; Maldonado, C; Froslev, TG; Antonelli, A; Ronsted, N	Unexpectedly High Beta-Diversity of Root-Associated Fungal Communities in the Bolivian Andes	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Bolivia is one of the most biologically diverse countries on the planet. Between the Andes and the Amazon drainage basin spans the Yungas, a vast forested region shown to be extremely species rich in macro-organisms. However, it remains unclear whether this high diversity is also reflected in microbial diversity. Here we assess the genetic, taxonomic and functional diversity of root-associated fungi surrounding Cinchona calisaya trees, a typical element of the intermediate altitudes of the Bolivian Yungas. We determine the relative effects of edaphic properties, climate, and geography in regulating fungal community assembly. We show that alpha-diversity for these fungal communities was similar to temperate and arid ecosystems, averaging 90.1 operational taxonomic units (OTUs) per sample, with reads predominantly assigned to the Ascomycota phylum and with a saprotrophic lifestyle. beta-diversity was calculated as the distance-decay rate, and in contrast to alpha-diversity, was exceptionally high with a rate of -0.407. Soil properties (pH and P) principally regulated fungal community assembly in an analogous manner to temperate environments, with pH and phosphorus explaining 7.8 and 7.2% of community variation respectively. Surprisingly, altitude does not influence community formation, and there is limited evidence that climate (precipitation and temperature) play a role. Our results suggest that sampling should be performed over a wide geographical and environmental range in order to capture the full root-associated fungal diversity in subtropical regions. This study sheds further light on the diversity and distribution of the worlds hidden biodiversity.	2016	7	10.3389/fmicb.2016.01377
Gokul, JK; Hodson, AJ; Saetnan, ER; Irvine-Fynn, TDL; Westall, PJ; Detheridge, AP; Takeuchi, N; Bussell, J; Mur, LAJ; Edwards, A	Taxon interactions control the distributions of cryoconite bacteria colonizing a High Arctic ice cap	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	Microbial colonization of glacial ice surfaces incurs feedbacks which affect the melting rate of the ice surface. Ecosystems formed as microbe-mineral aggregates termed cryoconite locally reduce ice surface albedo and represent foci of biodiversity and biogeochemical cycling. Consequently, greater understanding the ecological processes in the formation of functional cryoconite ecosystems upon glacier surfaces is sought. Here, we present the first bacterial biogeography of an ice cap, evaluating the respective roles of dispersal, environmental and biotic filtration occurring at local scales in the assembly of cryoconite microbiota. 16S rRNA gene amplicon semiconductor sequencing of cryoconite colonizing a Svalbard ice cap coupled with digital elevation modelling of physical parameters reveals the bacterial community is dominated by a ubiquitous core of generalist taxa, with evidence for a moderate pairwise distance-decay relationship. While geographic position and melt season duration are prominent among environmental predictors of community structure, the core population of taxa appears highly influential in structuring the bacterial community. Taxon co-occurrence network analysis reveals a highly modular community structured by positive interactions with bottleneck taxa, predominantly Actinobacteria affiliated to isolates from soil humus. In contrast, the filamentous cyanobacterial taxon (assigned to Leptolyngbya/Phormidesmis pristleyi) which dominates the community and binds together granular cryoconite are poorly connected to other taxa. While our study targeted one ice cap, the prominent role of generalist core taxa with close environmental relatives across the global cryosphere indicate discrete roles for cosmopolitan Actinobacteria and Cyanobacteria as respective keystone taxa and ecosystem engineers of cryoconite ecosystems colonizing ice caps.	2016	25	10.1111/mec.13715
Wang, XH; Wen, XH; Deng, Y; Xia, Y; Yang, YF; Zhou, JZ	Distance-Decay Relationship for Biological Wastewater Treatment Plants	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Patterns in the spatial distribution of organisms provide important information about mechanisms underlying biodiversity and the complexity of ecosystems. One of the most well-documented spatial patterns is the distance-decay relationship, which is a universal biogeographic pattern observed repeatedly for plant and animal communities, particularly for microorganisms in natural ecosystems such as soil, ocean, and salt marsh sediment. However, it is uncertain whether the microorganisms exhibit a distance-decay pattern in engineered ecosystems. Therefore, we measured the distance-decay relationship across various microbial functional and phylogenetic groups in 26 biological wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs) in China using a functional gene array (GeoChip 4.2). We found that microbial communities of activated sludge in WWTPs exhibited a significant but very weak distance-decay relationship. The taxon-area z values for different functional and phylogenetic groups were <0.0065, which is about 1 to 2 orders of magnitude lower than those observed in microbial communities elsewhere. Variation-partitioning analysis (VPA) showed that the relationships were driven by both environmental heterogeneity and geographic distance. Collectively, these results provided new insights into the spatial scaling of microbial communities in engineering ecosystems and highlighted the importance of environmental heterogeneity and geographic distance in shaping biogeographic patterns. IMPORTANCE Determining the distance-decay relationship of microbial biodiversity is important but challenging in microbial ecology. All studies to date are based on natural environments; thus, it remains unclear whether there is such a relationship in an engineered ecosystem. The present study shows that there is a very weak distance-decay relationship in an engineered ecosystem (WWTPs) at the regional-to-continental scale. This study makes fundamental contributions to a mechanistic, predictive understanding of microbial biogeography.	2016	82	10.1128/AEM.01071-16
Shen, CC; Shi, Y; Ni, YY; Deng, Y; Van Nostrand, JD; He, ZL; Zhou, JZ; Chu, HY	Dramatic Increases of Soil Microbial Functional Gene Diversity at the Treeline Ecotone of Changbai Mountain	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	The elevational and latitudinal diversity patterns of microbial taxa have attracted great attention in the past decade. Recently, the distribution of functional attributes has been in the spotlight. Here, we report a study profiling soil microbial communities along an elevation gradient (500-2200 m) on Changbai Mountain. Using a comprehensive functional gene microarray (GeoChip 5.0), we found that microbial functional gene richness exhibited a dramatic increase at the treeline ecotone, but the bacterial taxonomic and phylogenetic diversity based on 16S rRNA gene sequencing did not exhibit such a similar trend. However, the beta-diversity (compositional dissimilarity among sites) pattern for both bacterial taxa and functional genes was similar, showing significant elevational distance-decay patterns which presented increased dissimilarity with elevation. The bacterial taxonomic diversity/structure was strongly influenced by soil pH, while the functional gene diversity/structure was significantly correlated with soil dissolved organic carbon (DOC). This finding highlights that soil DOC may be a good predictor in determining the elevational distribution of microbial functional genes. The finding of significant shifts in functional gene diversity at the treeline ecotone could also provide valuable information for predicting the responses of microbial functions to climate change.	2016	7	10.3389/fmicb.2016.01184
Santoferrara, LF; Grattepanche, JD; Katz, LA; McManus, GB	Patterns and processes in microbial biogeography: do molecules and morphologies give the same answers?	ISME JOURNAL	Our knowledge on microbial biogeography depends on the way we define and study diversity. In contrast to most microbes, some protist lineages have conspicuous structures that allow comparisons of diversity concepts and measures-those based on molecules and those based on morphology. We analyzed a group of shell-bearing planktonic ciliates, the tintinnids, in a coast-to-ocean gradient using high-throughput sequencing and microscopy. First, we compared molecular operational taxonomic units (OTUs) and morphospecies in terms of assemblage composition, distribution and relationships with the environment. OTUs revealed potentially novel and rare taxa, while morphospecies showed clearer correlations with environmental factors, and both approaches coincided in supporting a coastal versus oceanic pattern. Second, we explored which processes influence assembly across the environmental gradient examined. Assemblage fluctuations were associated with significant distance-decay and changes in morphospecies size and prey proxies, thus suggesting niche partitioning as a key structuring mechanism. Our conclusion is that molecules and morphologies generally agreed, but they provided complementary data, the first revealing hidden diversity, and the latter making better connections between distribution patterns and ecological processes. This highlights the importance of linking genotypes and phenotypes (using multidisciplinary analyses and/or reliable databases of barcoded species), to understand the diversity, biogeography and ecological roles of microbes.	2016	10	10.1038/ismej.2015.224
Vacher, C; Cordier, T; Vallance, J	Phyllosphere Fungal Communities Differentiate More Thoroughly than Bacterial Communities Along an Elevation Gradient	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY		2016	72	10.1007/s00248-016-0742-8
Hao, YQ; Zhao, XF; Zhang, DY	Field experimental evidence that stochastic processes predominate in the initial assembly of bacterial communities	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	To assess the relative importance of environmental selection, dispersal and stochastic processes in structuring ecological communities, we conducted a bacterial community assembly experiment using microcosms filled with sterile liquid medium under field conditions in the Inner Mongolian grasslands. Multiple replicate microcosms containing different carbon substrates were placed at nine locations across three spatial scales (10, 300 and 10 000 m distance between locations) in such a way that the environment of microcosms varies independently of the geographical distance. The operational taxonomic units within the experimental communities were assessed via the terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism techniques on the 10th and 17th days after the onset of the experiment. We found no evidence of distance decay in community similarity, and communities within a given location were more similar to each other regardless of environment than communities at other locations within the same spatial scale. Variance partitioning indicated that location explained more compositional variation in microbial communities than environment, particularly on the 17th day, despite that environment and location in combination could only explain less than half of the total variation. These results suggest that bacterial dispersal is not limited by distance in this experiment, and community assembly in microcosms is not environmentally determined but governed by stochastic processes.	2016	18	10.1111/1462-2920.12858
Hayden, CJ; Beman, JM	Microbial diversity and community structure along a lake elevation gradient in Yosemite National Park, California, USA	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Microbial communities are key components of lake ecosystems and play central roles in lake biogeochemical cycles. Freshwater lakes, in turn, have a disproportionate influence on global carbon and nitrogen cycling, while also acting as sentinels of environmental change. Determining what factors regulate microbial community dynamics and their relationship to lake biogeochemistry is therefore essential to understanding global change feedbacks. We used ILLUMINA sequencing of >2 million 16S rRNA genes to examine microbial community structure and diversity in relation to spatial, temporal and biogeochemical variation, within and across lakes located along a 871 m elevation gradient in Yosemite National Park, California, USA. We captured a rich microbial community that included many rare operational taxonomic units (OTUs), but was dominated by a few bacterial classes and OTUs frequently detected in other freshwater ecosystems. Neither richness, evenness nor overall diversity was directly related to elevation. However, redundancy analysis showed that changes in microbial community structure were significantly related to elevation. Along with sampling period and dissolved nutrient concentrations, 29% of the variation in community structure could be explained by measured variables - in congruence with studies in other lakes using different techniques. We also found a distance-decay relationship in microbial community structure across lakes, suggesting that both local environmental factors and dispersal play a role in structuring communities.	2016	18	10.1111/1462-2920.12938
Recker, J; Lekse, D	A field study of spatial preferences in enterprise microblogging	JOURNAL OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY	How does the introduction of enterprise social networking affect the way that geographically dispersed managers communicate with each other? We examine enterprise social network (ESN) usage data obtained from a community of store managers in a leading Australian retail organization, over a period of 15 months after introduction of the platform. Our interest in examining this data is in spatial communication preferences by the network users, that is, to ascertain who is communicating with whom and where. Our analysis of 12,000 messages exchanged between 530 managers shows that interactions can generally be characterized by individual preferences for local communication but also that two different user communities exist - locals and globals. We develop empirical profiles for these two types of social network user communities, and we compare the empirical results against contrasting theoretical perspectives for spatial preference patterns in communication behaviour. We outline implications for theories on spatial influences on communication behaviours on ESNs.	2016	31	10.1057/jit.2015.27
David, AS; Seabloom, EW; May, G	Plant Host Species and Geographic Distance Affect the Structure of Aboveground Fungal Symbiont Communities, and Environmental Filtering Affects Belowground Communities in a Coastal Dune Ecosystem	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Microbial symbionts inhabit tissues of all plants and animals. Their community composition depends largely on two ecological processes: (1) filtering by abiotic conditions and host species determining the environments that symbionts are able to colonize and (2) dispersal-limitation determining the pool of symbionts available to colonize a given host and community spatial structure. In plants, the above- and belowground tissues represent such distinct habitats for symbionts that we expect different effects of filtering and spatial structuring on their symbiont communities. In this study, we characterized above- and belowground communities of fungal endophytes-fungi living asymptomatically within plants-to understand the contributions of filtering and spatial structure to endophyte community composition. We used a culture-based approach to characterize endophytes growing in leaves and roots of three species of coastal beachgrasses in dunes of the USA Pacific Northwest. For leaves, endophyte isolation frequency and OTU richness depended primarily on plant host species. In comparison, for roots, both isolation frequency and OTU richness increased from the nutrient-poor front of the dune to the higher-nutrient backdune. Endophyte community composition in leaves exhibited a distance-decay relationship across the region. In a laboratory assay, faster growth rates and lower spore production were more often associated with leaf- than root-inhabiting endophytes. Overall, our results reveal a greater importance of biotic filtering by host species and dispersal-limitation over regional geographic distances for aboveground leaf endophyte communities and stronger effects of abiotic environmental filtering and locally patchy distributions for belowground root endophyte communities.	2016	71	10.1007/s00248-015-0712-6
Stone, BWG; Jackson, CR	Biogeographic Patterns Between Bacterial Phyllosphere Communities of the Southern Magnolia (Magnolia grandiflora) in a Small Forest	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	The phyllosphere presents a unique system of discrete and easily replicable surfaces colonized primarily by bacteria. However, the biogeography of bacteria in the phyllosphere is little understood, especially at small to intermediate scales. Bacterial communities on the leaves of 91 southern magnolia (Magnolia grandiflora) trees 1-452 m apart in a small forest plot were analyzed and fragments of the 16S ribosomal RNA (rRNA) gene sequenced using the Illumina platform. Assemblages were dominated by members of the Alphaproteobacteria, Bacteroidetes, and Acidobacteria. Patterns in community composition were measured by both relative abundance (theta) and presence-absence (Jaccard) dissimilarity metrics. Distance-based Morans eigenvector map analyses of the distance-decay relationship found a significant, positive relationship between each dissimilarity metric and significant eigenfunctions derived from geographic distance between trees, indicating trees that were closer together had more similar bacterial phyllosphere communities. Indirect gradient analyses revealed that several environmental parameters (canopy cover, tree elevation, and the slope and aspect of the ground beneath trees) were significantly related to multivariate ordination scores based on relative bacterial sequence abundances; however, these relationships were not significant when looking at the incidence of bacterial taxa. This suggests that bacterial growth and abundance in the phyllosphere is shaped by different assembly mechanisms than bacterial presence or absence. More broadly, this study demonstrates that the distance-decay relationship applies to phyllosphere communities at local scales, and that environmental parameters as well as neutral forces may both influence spatial patterns in the phyllosphere.	2016	71	10.1007/s00248-016-0738-4
Bahram, M; Kohout, P; Anslan, S; Harend, H; Abarenkov, K; Tedersoo, L	Stochastic distribution of small soil eukaryotes resulting from high dispersal and drift in a local environment	ISME JOURNAL	A central challenge in ecology is to understand the relative importance of processes that shape diversity patterns. Compared with aboveground biota, little is known about spatial patterns and processes in soil organisms. Here we examine the spatial structure of communities of small soil eukaryotes to elucidate the underlying stochastic and deterministic processes in the absence of environmental gradients at a local scale. Specifically, we focus on the fine-scale spatial autocorrelation of prominent taxonomic and functional groups of eukaryotic microbes. We collected 123 soil samples in a nested design at distances ranging from 0.01 to 64m from three boreal forest sites and used 454 pyrosequencing analysis of Internal Transcribed Spacer for detecting Operational Taxonomic Units of major eukaryotic groups simultaneously. Among the main taxonomic groups, we found significant but weak spatial variability only in the communities of Fungi and Rhizaria. Within Fungi, ectomycorrhizas and pathogens exhibited stronger spatial structure compared with saprotrophs and corresponded to vegetation. For the groups with significant spatial structure, autocorrelation occurred at a very fine scale (< 2m). Both dispersal limitation and environmental selection had a weak effect on communities as reflected in negative or null deviation of communities, which was also supported by multivariate analysis, that is, environment, spatial processes and their shared effects explained on average < 10% of variance. Taken together, these results indicate a random distribution of soil eukaryotes with respect to space and environment in the absence of environmental gradients at the local scale, reflecting the dominant role of drift and homogenizing dispersal.	2016	10	10.1038/ismej.2015.164
Jiang, YJ; Liang, YT; Li, CM; Wang, F; Sui, YY; Suvannang, N; Zhou, JZ; Sun, B	Crop rotations alter bacterial and fungal diversity in paddy soils across East Asia	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	Rice ecosystems are distributed broadly from temperate to tropical regions, but little is known about the underlying mechanisms shaping microbial communities and their network structure in paddy soils at the continental scale. Soil samples were collected from paddy fields across East Asia representing four types of crop rotations: single rice, rice-wheat rotation, double rice, and rice-legume-rice rotation. Here, we describe the roles that crop rotations, environmental heterogeneity and geographical distance play in determining the spatial distribution of microbial communities in paddy soils across East Asia. Our survey revealed remarkable differences in the diversity and composition of microbial operational taxonomic units (OTUs) among four crop rotations. The shared cosmopolitan OTUs Rhizobiales bacterium (genus Bradyrhizobium) and Hypocreales fungus played key-species roles in the ecological networks. A steeper slope of distance decay for the fungal samples compared with the bacterial samples implies a faster turnover in fungal OTU composition across geographical zones. Bacterial communities were affected by soil environmental heterogeneity to an extent that overwhelmed the effect of geographical distance, whereas fungal communities were better predicted by geographical distance. The diversity and composition of bacterial and fungal communities corresponded strongly to soil pH but less strongly to total nitrogen. Remarkably, crop rotations played a key role in determining the changes in microbial diversity, community composition and networks. Taken together, these results provide a baseline ecological framework with which to pursue future research on soil microbial function in paddy soils. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2016	95	10.1016/j.soilbio.2016.01.007
Yang, HS; Dai, YJ; Xu, MM; Zhang, Q; Bian, XM; Tang, JJ; Chen, X	Metadata-mining of 18S rDNA sequences reveals that everything is not everywhere for glomeromycotan fungi	ANNALS OF MICROBIOLOGY	In microbial ecology, the everything is everywhere hypothesis has long been controversial. In the present study, we performed data-mining for 18S rDNA sequences of glomeromycotan fungi in order to test this hypothesis. 18S rDNA sequences targeted using AM1-NS31 fragments were retrieved from GenBank, with a total of 1768 sequences collected from 34 sites worldwide. In total, 229, 330 and 518 operational taxonomic units (OTUs) were defined based on 97, 98 and 99 % similarity, respectively. The 97 % OTUs showed a limited geographical range of glomeromycotan fungi. Among the OTUs, 58.1 % were endemic, and 17.9 % and 9.2 % were found in two and three sites, respectively. The most widespread OTU was shared by 17 sites. Phylogenetic structure analysis demonstrated that most local communities (26 of 34) were clustered. OTUs with larger host breadth had wider geographic ranges. A significant distance-decay relationship was revealed that was independent of habitat. Cluster analysis showed that fungal composition was not related to habitat, while Fast UniFrac analysis indicated that the distribution of Glomeromycota was affected by temperature. Taken together, these results suggest that glomeromycotan fungi were not randomly distributed under natural conditions; rather, they were affected by host plants, dispersal ability and temperature. Thus, the distribution of glomeromycotan fungi argues against the hypothesis that everything is everywhere..	2016	66	10.1007/s13213-015-1116-z
Rojo, C; Mesquita-Joanes, F; Monros, JS; Armengol, J; Sasa, M; Bonilla, F; Rueda, R; Benavent-Corail, J; Piculo, R; Segura, MM	Hydrology Affects Environmental and Spatial Structuring of Microalgal Metacommunities in Tropical Pacific Coast Wetlands	PLOS ONE	The alternating climate between wet and dry periods has important effects on the hydrology and therefore on niche-based processes of water bodies in tropical areas. Additionally, assemblages of microorganism can show spatial patterns, in the form of a distance decay relationship due to their size or life form. We aimed to test spatial and environmental effects, modulated by a seasonal flooding climatic pattern, on the distribution of microalgae in 30 wetlands of a tropical dry forest region: the Pacific coast of Costa Rica and Nicaragua. Three surveys were conducted corresponding to the beginning, the highest peak, and the end of the hydrological year during the wet season, and species abundance and composition of planktonic and benthic microalgae was determined. Variation partitioning analysis (as explained by spatial distance or environmental factors) was applied to each seasonal dataset by means of partial redundancy analysis. Our results show that microalgal assemblages were structured by spatial and environmental factors depending on the hydrological period of the year. At the onset of hydroperiod and during flooding, neutral effects dominated community dynamics, but niche-based local effects resulted in more structured algal communities at the final periods of desiccating water bodies. Results suggest that climate-mediated effects on hydrology can influence the relative role of spatial and environmental factors on metacommunities of microalgae. Such variability needs to be accounted in order to describe accurately community dynamics in tropical coastal wetlands.	2016	11	10.1371/journal.pone.0149505
Deng, Y; He, ZL; Xiong, JB; Yu, H; Xu, MY; Hobbie, SE; Reich, PB; Schadt, CW; Kent, A; Pendall, E; Wallenstein, M; Zhou, JZ	Elevated carbon dioxide accelerates the spatial turnover of soil microbial communities	GLOBAL CHANGE BIOLOGY	Although elevated CO2 (eCO(2)) significantly affects the -diversity, composition, function, interaction and dynamics of soil microbial communities at the local scale, little is known about eCO(2) impacts on the geographic distribution of micro-organisms regionally or globally. Here, we examined the -diversity of 110 soil microbial communities across six free air CO2 enrichment (FACE) experimental sites using a high-throughput functional gene array. The -diversity of soil microbial communities was significantly (P<0.05) correlated with geographic distance under both CO2 conditions, but declined significantly (P<0.05) faster at eCO(2) with a slope of -0.0250 than at ambient CO2 (aCO(2)) with a slope of -0.0231 although it varied within each individual site, indicating that the spatial turnover rate of soil microbial communities was accelerated under eCO(2) at a larger geographic scale (e.g. regionally). Both distance and soil properties significantly (P<0.05) contributed to the observed microbial -diversity. This study provides new hypotheses for further understanding their assembly mechanisms that may be especially important as global CO2 continues to increase.	2016	22	10.1111/gcb.13098
Angermeyer, A; Crosby, SC; Huber, JA	Decoupled distance-decay patterns between dsrA and 16S rRNA genes among salt marsh sulfate-reducing bacteria	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	In many habitats, microorganisms exhibit significant distance-decay patterns as determined by analysis of the 16S rRNA gene and various other genetic elements. However, there have been few studies that examine how the similarities of both taxonomic and functional genes co-vary over geographic distance within a group of ecologically related microbes. Here, we determined the biogeographic patterns of the functional dissimilatory sulfite reductase gene (dsrA) and the 16S rRNA gene in sulfate-reducing bacterial communities of US East Coast salt marsh sediments. Distance-decay, ordination and statistical analyses revealed that the distribution of 16S rRNA genes is strongly influenced by geographic distance and environmental factors, whereas the dsrA gene is not. Together, our results indicate that 16S rRNA genes are likely dispersal limited and under environmental selection, whereas dsrA genes appear randomly distributed and not selected for by any expected environmental variables. Selection, drift, dispersal and mutation are all factors that may help explain the decoupled biogeographic patterns for the two genes. These data suggest that both the taxonomic and functional elements of microbial communities should be considered in future studies of microbial biogeography to aid in our understanding of the diversity, distribution and function of microorganisms in the environment.	2016	18	10.1111/1462-2920.12821
Hu, WG; Zhang, Q; Tian, T; Li, DY; Cheng, G; Mu, J; Wu, QB; Niu, FJ; Stegen, JC; An, LZ; Feng, HY	Relative Roles of Deterministic and Stochastic Processes in Driving the Vertical Distribution of Bacterial Communities in a Permafrost Core from the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau, China	PLOS ONE	Understanding the processes that influence the structure of biotic communities is one of the major ecological topics, and both stochastic and deterministic processes are expected to be at work simultaneously in most communities. Here, we investigated the vertical distribution patterns of bacterial communities in a 10-m-long soil core taken within permafrost of the Qing-hai-Tibet Plateau. To get a better understanding of the forces that govern these patterns, we examined the diversity and structure of bacterial communities, and the change in community composition along the vertical distance (spatial turnover) from both taxonomic and phylogenetic perspectives. Measures of taxonomic and phylogenetic beta diversity revealed that bacterial community composition changed continuously along the soil core, and showed a vertical distance-decay relationship. Multiple stepwise regression analysis suggested that bacterial alpha diversity and phylogenetic structure were strongly correlated with soil conductivity and pH but weakly correlated with depth. There was evidence that deterministic and stochastic processes collectively drived bacterial vertically-structured pattern. Bacterial communities in five soil horizons (two originated from the active layer and three from permafrost) of the permafrost core were phylogenetically random, indicator of stochastic processes. However, we found a stronger effect of deterministic processes related to soil pH, conductivity, and organic carbon content that were structuring the bacterial communities. We therefore conclude that the vertical distribution of bacterial communities was governed primarily by deterministic ecological selection, although stochastic processes were also at work. Furthermore, the strong impact of environmental conditions ( for example, soil physicochemical parameters and seasonal freeze-thaw cycles) on these communities underlines the sensitivity of permafrost microorganisms to climate change and potentially subsequent permafrost thaw.	2015	10	10.1371/journal.pone.0145747
Persoh, D	Plant-associated fungal communities in the light of metaomics	FUNGAL DIVERSITY	Approaches for the cultivation-independent analysis of microbial communities are summarized as metaomics, which predominantly includes metagenomic, -transcriptomic, -proteomic and -metabolomic studies. These have shown that endophytic, root-associated and soil fungal communities are strongly shaped by associated plant species. The impact of plant identity on the composition of its litter-associated fungal community remains to be disentangled from the impact of litter chemistry. The composition of the plant community also shapes the fungal community. Most strikingly, adjacent plant species may share mycorrhizal symbionts even if the plants usually have different types of mycorrhizal fungi associated with them (ectomycorrhizal, ericoid and arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi). Environmental parameters weakly explain fungal community composition globally, and their effect is inconsistent at local and regional scales. Decrease in similarity among communities with increasing distance (i.e. distance decay) has been reported from local to global scales. This pattern is only exceptionally caused by spatial dispersal limitation of fungal propagules, but mostly due to the inability of the fungi to establish at the particular locality (i.e. environmental filtering or competitive exclusion). Fungal communities usually undergo pronounced seasonal changes and also differ between consecutive years. This indicates that development of the communities is usually not solely cyclic. Metaomic studies challenge the classical view of plant litter decomposition. They show that mycorrhizal and (previously) endophytic fungi may be involved in plant litter decomposition and only partly support the idea of a succession from an Ascomycota to a Basidiomycota-dominated community. Furthermore, vertical separation of saprotrophic and mycorrhizal species in soil and sequential degradation from easily accessible to recalcitrant plant compounds, such as lignin, can probably not be generalized. The current models of litter decomposition may therefore have to be eventually refined for certain ecosystems and environmental conditions. To gain deeper insights into fungal ecology, a metaomic study design is outlined which focuses on environmental processes, because fungal communities are usually taxonomically diverse, but functionally redundant. This approach would initially identify dynamics of chemical shifts in the host and/or substrate by metametabolomics. Detected shifts would be subsequently linked to microbial activity by correlation with metatranscriptomic and/or metaproteomic data. A holistic trait-based approach might finally identify factors shaping taxonomic composition in communities against the dynamics of the environmental process(es) they are involved in.	2015	75	10.1007/s13225-015-0334-9
Wang, YM; Liu, LM; Chen, HH; Yang, J	Spatiotemporal dynamics and determinants of planktonic bacterial and microeukaryotic communities in a Chinese subtropical river	APPLIED MICROBIOLOGY AND BIOTECHNOLOGY	The spatiotemporal distribution of microbial diversity, community composition, and their major drivers are fundamental issues in microbial ecology. In this study, the planktonic bacterial and microeukaryotic communities of the Jiulong River were investigated across both wet and dry seasons by using denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE). We found evidence of temporal change between wet and dry seasons and distinct spatial patterns of bacterial and microeukaryotic communities. Both bacterial and microeukaryotic communities were strongly correlated with temperature, NH4-N, PO4-P, and chlorophyll a, and these environmental factors were significant but incomplete predictors of microbial community composition. Local environmental factors combined with spatial and temporal factors strongly controlled both bacterial and microeukaryotic communities in complex ways, whereas the direct influence of spatial and temporal factors appeared to be relatively small. Path analysis revealed that the microeukaryotic community played key roles in shaping bacterial community composition, perhaps through grazing effects and multiple interactions. Both Betaproteobacteria and Actinobacteria were the most dominant and diverse taxa in bacterial communities, while the microeukaryotic communities were dominated by Ciliophora (zooplankton) and Chlorophyta (phytoplankton). Our results demonstrated that both bacterial and microeukaryotic communities along the Jiulong River displayed a distinct spatiotemporal pattern; however, microeukaryotic communities exhibited a stronger distance-decay relationship than bacterial communities and their spatial patterns were mostly driven by local environmental variables rather than season or spatial processes of the river. Therefore, we have provided baseline data to support further research on river microbial food webs and integrating different microbial groups into river models.	2015	99	10.1007/s00253-015-6773-0
Sintes, E; De Corte, D; Ouillon, N; Herndl, GJ	Macroecological patterns of archaeal ammonia oxidizers in the Atlantic Ocean	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	Macroecological patterns are found in animals and plants, but also in micro-organisms. Macroecological and biogeographic distribution patterns in marine Archaea, however, have not been studied yet. Ammonia-oxidizing Archaea (AOA) show a bipolar distribution (i.e. similar communities in the northernmost and the southernmost locations, separated by distinct communities in the tropical and gyral regions) throughout the Atlantic, detectable from epipelagic to upper bathypelagic layers (<2000m depth). This tentatively suggests an influence of the epipelagic conditions of organic matter production on bathypelagic AOA communities. The AOA communities below 2000m depth showed a less pronounced biogeographic distribution pattern than the upper 2000m water column. Overall, AOA in the surface and deep Atlantic waters exhibit distance-decay relationships and follow the Rapoport rule in a similar way as bacterial communities and macroorganisms. This indicates a major role of environmental conditions in shaping the community composition and assembly (species sorting) and no, or only weak limits for dispersal in the oceanic thaumarchaeal communities. However, there is indication of a different strength of these relationships between AOA and Bacteria, linked to the intrinsic differences between these two domains.	2015	24	10.1111/mec.13365
Liu, LM; Yang, J; Yu, Z; Wilkinson, DM	The biogeography of abundant and rare bacterioplankton in the lakes and reservoirs of China	ISME JOURNAL	Bacteria play key roles in the ecology of both aquatic and terrestrial ecosystems; however, little is known about their diversity and biogeography, especially in the rare microbial biosphere of inland freshwater ecosystems. Here we investigated aspects of the community ecology and geographical distribution of abundant and rare bacterioplankton using high-throughput sequencing and examined the relative influence of local environmental variables and regional (spatial) factors on their geographical distribution patterns in 42 lakes and reservoirs across China. Our results showed that the geographical patterns of abundant and rare bacterial subcommunities were generally similar, and both of them showed a significant distance-decay relationship. This suggests that the rare bacterial biosphere is not a random assembly, as some authors have assumed, and that its distribution is most likely subject to the same ecological processes that control abundant taxa. However, we identified some differences between the abundant and rare groups as both groups of bacteria showed a significant positive relationship between sites occupancy and abundance, but the abundant bacteria exhibited a weaker distance-decay relationship than the rare bacteria. Our results implied that rare subcommunities were mostly governed by local environmental variables, whereas the abundant subcommunities were mainly affected by regional factors. In addition, both local and regional variables that were significantly related to the spatial variation of abundant bacterial community composition were different to those of rare ones, suggesting that abundant and rare bacteria may have discrepant ecological niches and may play different roles in natural ecosystems.	2015	9	10.1038/ismej.2015.29
Wang, YM; Yang, J; Liu, LMA; Yu, Z	Quantifying the effects of geographical and environmental factors on distribution of stream bacterioplankton within nature reserves of Fujian, China	ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE AND POLLUTION RESEARCH	Bacterioplankton are important components of freshwater ecosystems and play essential roles in ecological functions and processes; however, little is known about their geographical distribution and the factors influencing their ecology, especially in stream ecosystems. To examine how geographical and environmental factors affect the composition of bacterioplankton communities, we used denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis and clone sequencing to survey bacterioplankton communities in 31 samples of streamwater from seven nature reserves in Fujian province, southeast China. Our results revealed that dominant bacterioplankton communities exhibited a distinct geographical pattern. Further, we provided evidence for distance decay relationships in bacterioplankton community similarity and found similar community gradients in response to elevation and latitude. Both redundancy analyses and Mantel tests showed that bacterioplankton community composition was significantly correlated with both environmental (electrical conductivity, total phosphorus, and PO4-P) and geographical factors (latitude, longitude, and elevation). Variance partitioning further showed that the joint effect of geographical and environmental factors explained the largest proportion of the variation in distribution of bacterioplankton communities (13.6 %), followed by purely geographical factors (11.2 %), and purely environmental factors (0.6 %). The Betaproteobacteria were the most common taxa in the streams, followed by Firmicutes and Gammaproteobacteria. Therefore, our results suggest that the biogeographical patterns of stream bacterioplankton communities across the Fujian nature reserves are more influenced by geographical factors than by local physicochemical properties.	2015	22	10.1007/s11356-015-4308-y
Liang, YT; Zhang, X; Zhou, JZ; Li, GH	Long-term oil contamination increases deterministic assembly processes in soil microbes	ECOLOGICAL APPLICATIONS	The mechanisms that drive microbial turnover in time and space have received considerable attention but remain unclear, especially for situations with anthropogenic perturbation. To understand the impact of long-term oil contamination on microbial spatial turnover, 100 soil samples were taken from five oil exploration fields located in different geographic regions across China. The microbial functional diversity was analyzed with a high-throughput functional gene array, GeoChip. Our results indicated that soil microbial -diversity (richness and Shannon diversity index) decreased significantly with contamination. All contaminated and uncontaminated samples exhibited significant spatial autocorrelation between microbial community similarity and spatial distance, as described by a distance-decay relationship (DDR). However, long-term oil exposure flattened the slopes of the DDRs of all of the functional genes and each functional group involved in C/N/P/S cycling, particularly of those involved in contaminant degradation. The relative importance of deterministic and stochastic processes in microbial assembly was determined. The decrease in microbial spatial turnover with long-term oil contamination was coupled with an increase in the proportion of deterministic processes that structured microbial assembly based on null model analysis. The results indicated long-term oil contamination significantly affects soil microbial community spatial structure by acting as an environmental filter to decrease the regional differences distinguishing soil microbial communities.	2015	25	10.1890/14-1672.1
Monier, A; Comte, J; Babin, M; Forest, A; Matsuoka, A; Lovejoy, C	Oceanographic structure drives the assembly processes of microbial eukaryotic communities	ISME JOURNAL	Arctic Ocean microbial eukaryote phytoplankton form subsurface chlorophyll maximum (SCM), where much of the annual summer production occurs. This SCM is particularly persistent in the Western Arctic Ocean, which is strongly salinity stratified. The recent loss of multiyear sea ice and increased particulate-rich river discharge in the Arctic Ocean results in a greater volume of fresher water that may displace nutrient-rich saltier waters to deeper depths and decrease light penetration in areas affected by river discharge. Here, we surveyed microbial eukaryotic assemblages in the surface waters, and within and below the SCM. In most samples, we detected the pronounced SCM that usually occurs at the interface of the upper mixed layer and Pacific Summer Water (PSW). Poorly developed SCM was seen under two conditions, one above PSW and associated with a downwelling eddy, and the second in a region influenced by the Mackenzie River plume. Four phylogenetically distinct communities were identified: surface, pronounced SCM, weak SCM and a deeper community just below the SCM. Distance-decay relationships and phylogenetic structure suggested distinct ecological processes operating within these communities. In the pronounced SCM, picophytoplanktons were prevalent and community assembly was attributed to water mass history. In contrast, environmental filtering impacted the composition of the weak SCM communities, where heterotrophic Picozoa were more numerous. These results imply that displacement of Pacific waters to greater depth and increased terrigenous input may act as a control on SCM development and result in lower net summer primary production with a more heterotroph dominated eukaryotic microbial community.	2015	9	10.1038/ismej.2014.197
Hahn, MW; Koll, U; Jezberova, J; Camacho, A	Global phylogeography of pelagic Polynucleobacter bacteria: Restricted geographic distribution of subgroups, isolation by distance and influence of climate	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	The free-living planktonic freshwater bacterium Polynucleobacter necessarius subspecies asymbioticus (>99% 16S rRNA similarity) represents a taxon with a cosmopolitan distribution and apparently ubiquitous occurrence in lentic freshwater habitats. We tested for intra-taxon biogeographic patterns by combining cultivation-independent and cultivation methods. A culture collection of 204 strains isolated from globally distributed freshwater habitats (Arctic to Antarctica) was investigated for phylogeographic patterns based on sequences of two markers, the 16S-23S internal transcribed spacers and the glutamine synthetase gene (glnA). Genetic distance between isolates showed significant geographic distance-decay patterns for both markers, suggesting that an isolation-by-distance mechanism influences the global phylogeography. Furthermore, a couple of subgroups showed restricted geographic distributions. Strains of one subgroup were exclusively obtained from tropical sites on four continents (pantropical subgroup). Cultivation-independent methods were used to confirm the restricted geographic distributions of two subgroups. The pantropical taxon could be detected in 63% of investigated tropical habitats but not in any of 121 European freshwater samples. Physiological tests indicated that almost all strains of the pantropical subgroup failed to grow at temperatures of 4 degrees C, while strains affiliated with other subgroups showed good growth at this temperature. This suggests that thermal adaptation is involved in phylogeographic structuring of the global Polynucleobacter population.	2015	17	10.1111/1462-2920.12532
Espinosa-Asuar, L; Escalante, AE; Gasca-Pineda, J; Blaz, J; Pena, L; Eguiarte, LE; Souza, V	Aquatic bacterial assemblage structure in Pozas Azules, Cuatro Cienegas Basin, Mexico: Deterministic vs. stochastic processes	INTERNATIONAL MICROBIOLOGY	The aim of this study was to determine the contributions of stochastic vs. deterministic processes in the distribution of microbial diversity in four ponds (Pozas Azules) within a temporally stable aquatic system in the Cuatro Cienegas Basin, State of Coahuila, Mexico. A sampling strategy for sites that were geographically delimited and had low environmental variation was applied to avoid obscuring distance effects. Aquatic bacterial diversity was characterized following a culture-independent approach (16S sequencing of clone libraries). The results showed a correlation between bacterial beta diversity (1-Sorensen) and geographic distance (distance decay of similarity), which indicated the influence of stochastic processes related to dispersion in the assembly of the ponds bacterial communities. Our findings are the first to show the influence of dispersal limitation in the prokaryotic diversity distribution of Cuatro Cienegas Basin.	2015	18	10.2436/20.1501.01.240
Kivlin, SN; Winston, GC; Goulden, ML; Treseder, KK	Environmental filtering affects soil fungal community composition more than dispersal limitation at regional scales	FUNGAL ECOLOGY	The relative importance of dispersal limitation versus environmental filtering for community assembly has received much attention for macroorganisms. These processes have only recently been examined in microbial communities. Instead, microbial dispersal has mostly been measured as community composition change over space (i.e., distance decay). Here we directly examined fungal composition in airborne wind currents and soil fungal communities across a 40 000 km(2) regional landscape to determine if dispersal limitation or abiotic factors were structuring soil fungal communities. Over this landscape, neither airborne nor soil fungal communities exhibited compositional differences due to geographic distance. Airborne fungal communities shifted temporally while soil fungal communities were correlated with abiotic parameters. These patterns suggest that environmental filtering may have the largest influence on fungal regional community assembly in soils, especially for aerially dispersed fungal taxa. Furthermore, we found evidence that dispersal of fungal spores differs between fungal taxa and can be both a stochastic and deterministic process. The spatial range of soil fungal taxa was correlated with their average regional abundance across all sites, which may imply stochastic dispersal mechanisms. Nevertheless, spore volume was also negatively correlated with spatial range for some species. Smaller volume spores may be adapted to long-range dispersal, or establishment, suggesting that deterministic fungal traits may also influence fungal distributions. Fungal life-history traits may influence their distributions as well. Hypogeous fungal taxa exhibited high local abundance, but small spatial ranges, while epigeous fungal taxa had lower local abundance, but larger spatial ranges. This study is the first, to our knowledge, to directly sample air dispersal and soil fungal communities simultaneously across a regional landscape. We provide some of the first evidence that soil fungal communities are mostly assembled through environmental filtering and experience little dispersal limitation. Elsevier Ltd and The British Mycological Society.	2014	12	10.1016/j.funeco.2014.04.004
Oliver, AE; Newbold, LK; Whiteley, AS; van der Gast, CJ	Marine bacterial communities are resistant to elevated carbon dioxide levels	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY REPORTS	It is well established that the release of anthropogenic-derived CO2 into the atmosphere will be mainly absorbed by the oceans, with a concomitant drop in pH, a process termed ocean acidification. As such, there is considerable interest in how changes in increased CO2 and lower pH will affect marine biota, such as bacteria, which play central roles in oceanic biogeochemical processes. Set within an ecological framework, we investigated the direct effects of elevated CO2, contrasted with ambient conditions on the resistance and resilience of marine bacterial communities in a replicated temporal seawater mesocosm experiment. The results of the study strongly indicate that marine bacterial communities are highly resistant to the elevated CO2 and lower pH conditions imposed, as demonstrated from measures of turnover using taxa-time relationships and distance-decay relationships. In addition, no significant differences in community abundance, structure or composition were observed. Our results suggest that there are no direct effects on marine bacterial communities and that the bacterial fraction of microbial plankton holds enough flexibility and evolutionary capacity to withstand predicted future changes from elevated CO2 and subsequent ocean acidification.	2014	6	10.1111/1758-2229.12159
Prevost-Boure, NC; Dequiedt, S; Thioulouse, J; Lelievre, M; Saby, NPA; Jolivet, C; Arrouays, D; Plassart, P; Lemanceau, P; Ranjard, L	Similar Processes but Different Environmental Filters for Soil Bacterial and Fungal Community Composition Turnover on a Broad Spatial Scale	PLOS ONE	Spatial scaling of microorganisms has been demonstrated over the last decade. However, the processes and environmental filters shaping soil microbial community structure on a broad spatial scale still need to be refined and ranked. Here, we compared bacterial and fungal community composition turnovers through a biogeographical approach on the same soil sampling design at a broad spatial scale (area range: 13300 to 31000 km(2)): i) to examine their spatial structuring; ii) to investigate the relative importance of environmental selection and spatial autocorrelation in determining their community composition turnover; and iii) to identify and rank the relevant environmental filters and scales involved in their spatial variations. Molecular fingerprinting of soil bacterial and fungal communities was performed on 413 soils from four French regions of contrasting environmental heterogeneity (Landes<Burgundy <= Brittany<<South-East) using the systematic grid of French Soil Quality Monitoring Network to evaluate the communities composition turnovers. The relative importance of processes and filters was assessed by distance-based redundancy analysis. This study demonstrates significant community composition turnover rates for soil bacteria and fungi, which were dependent on the region. Bacterial and fungal community composition turnovers were mainly driven by environmental selection explaining from 10% to 20% of community composition variations, but spatial variables also explained 3% to 9% of total variance. These variables highlighted significant spatial autocorrelation of both communities unexplained by the environmental variables measured and could partly be explained by dispersal limitations. Although the identified filters and their hierarchy were dependent on the region and organism, selection was systematically based on a common group of environmental variables: pH, trophic resources, texture and land use. Spatial autocorrelation was also important at coarse (80 to 120 km radius) and/or medium (40 to 65 km radius) spatial scales, suggesting dispersal limitations at these scales.	2014	9	10.1371/journal.pone.0111667
Barreto, DP; Conrad, R; Klose, M; Claus, P; Enrich-Prast, A	Distance-Decay and Taxa-Area Relationships for Bacteria, Archaea and Methanogenic Archaea in a Tropical Lake Sediment	PLOS ONE	The study of of the distribution of microorganisms through space (and time) allows evaluation of biogeographic patterns, like the species-area index (z). Due to their high dispersal ability, high reproduction rates and low rates of extinction microorganisms tend to be widely distributed, and they are thought to be virtually cosmopolitan and selected primarily by environmental factors. Recent studies have shown that, despite these characteristics, microorganisms may behave like larger organisms and exhibit geographical distribution. In this study, we searched patterns of spatial diversity distribution of bacteria and archaea in a contiguous environment. We collected 26 samples of a lake sediment, distributed in a nested grid, with distances between samples ranging from 0.01 m to 1000 m. The samples were analyzed using T-RFLP (Terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism) targeting mcrA (coding for a subunit of methyl-coenzyme M reductase) and the genes of Archaeal and Bacterial 16S rRNA. From the qualitative and quantitative results (relative abundance of operational taxonomic units) we calculated the similarity index for each pair to evaluate the taxa-area and distance decay relationship slopes by linear regression. All results were significant, with mcrA genes showing the highest slope, followed by Archaeal and Bacterial 16S rRNA genes. We showed that the microorganisms of a methanogenic community, that is active in a contiguous environment, display spatial distribution and a taxa-area relationship.	2014	9	10.1371/journal.pone.0110128
Donnarumma, F; Bazzicalupo, M; Blazinkov, M; Mengoni, A; Sikora, S; Babic, KH	Biogeography of Sinorhizobium meliloti nodulating alfalfa in different Croatian regions	RESEARCH IN MICROBIOLOGY	Sinorhizobium meliloti is a nitrogen-fixing rhizobium symbiont of legumes, widespread in many temperate environments the high genetic diversity of which enables it to thrive as a symbiont of host legumes and free-living in soil. Soil type, together with geographic differences and host plant genotype, seem to be prominent factors in shaping rhizobial genetic diversity. While a large body of research supports the idea that the genetic structure of free-living microbial taxa exhibits a clear biogeographic pattern, few investigations have been performed on the biogeographic pattern of S. meliloti genotypes in a restricted geographic range. In the present study, a collection of 128 S. meliloti isolates from three different regions in Croatia was investigated to analyze the relationship between genetic diversity, geographic distribution, soil features and isolate phenotypes by using amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) as a genome-wide scanning method. Results obtained led to the conclusion that the genotypes of isolates cluster according to the region of origin and that the differentiation of S. meliloti populations can be mainly ascribed to geographic isolation following an isolation-by-distance model, with a strong distance-decay relationship of genetic similarity with distance, in which local soil conditions are not the major component influencing the isolate phenotypes or their genomic differentiation. (C) 2014 Institut Pasteur. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.	2014	165	10.1016/j.resmic.2014.06.001
Chi, XL; Tang, ZY; Fang, JY	Patterns of phylogenetic beta diversity in Chinas grasslandsin in relation to geographical and environmental distance	BASIC AND APPLIED ECOLOGY	Patterns and determinants of beta (beta-) diversity can be used to explore the underlying mechanisms regulating community assembly. Despite being the most commonly used measure of beta-diversity, species turnover does not consider the evolutionary differences among species, treating all species equally. Incorporating information on phylogenetic non-independence or relatedness among species in the calculation of beta-diversity may substantially advance our understanding of the ecological and evolutionary mechanisms structuring communities. Here, we investigate the relative influence of geographical distance and differences in environmental conditions (environmental distance) on the phylogenetic beta-diversity between grassland communities expanding 4000 km across the Tibetan Plateau, the Inner Mongolia Plateau and the Xinjiang Autonomous Region in China. Both observed and standardized effect size of phylogenetic beta-diversity were significantly correlated with geographical and environmental distance across all regions. However, the effect of geographical distance on the standardized effect size of phylogenetic beta-diversity disappeared when environmental distance was controlled. We also found that within different regions, the effect of environmental distance on both observed and standardized effect size of phylogenetic beta-diversity was more significant than geographical distance. Among environmental variables, climate played a more important role in shaping observed phylogenetic beta-diversity across and within regions, and standardized effect size of phylogenetic beta-diversity across regions. Soil properties played a more important role in shaping standardized effect size of phylogenetic beta-diversity within regions. The phylogenetic beta-diversity of species from dicot and monocot clades exhibited similar patterns along environmental and geographical distance. The results suggest that at the study scale, phylogeny of grassland communities in China is predominantly structured by environmental filtering, and the dominant environmental factors may be scale-dependent.	2014	15	10.1016/j.baae.2014.07.003
Lear, G; Bellamy, J; Case, BS; Lee, JE; Buckley, HL	Fine-scale spatial patterns in bacterial community composition and function within freshwater ponds	ISME JOURNAL	The extent to which non-host-associated bacterial communities exhibit small-scale biogeographic patterns in their distribution remains unclear. Our investigation of biogeography in bacterial community composition and function compared samples collected across a smaller spatial scale than most previous studies conducted in freshwater. Using a grid-based sampling design, we abstracted 100+ samples located between 3.5 and 60 m apart within each of three alpine ponds. For every sample, variability in bacterial community composition was monitored using a DNA-fingerprinting methodology (automated ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis) whereas differences in bacterial community function (that is, carbon substrate utilisation patterns) were recorded from Biolog Ecoplates. The exact spatial position and dominant physicochemical conditions (for example, pH and temperature) were simultaneously recorded for each sample location. We assessed spatial differences in bacterial community composition and function within each pond and found that, on average, community composition or function differed significantly when comparing samples located >20 m apart within any pond. Variance partitioning revealed that purely spatial variation accounted for more of the observed variability in both bacterial community composition and function (range: 24-38% and 17-39%) than the combination of purely environmental variation and spatially structured environmental variation (range: 17-32% and 15-20%). Clear spatial patterns in bacterial community composition, but not function were observed within ponds. We therefore suggest that some of the observed variation in bacterial community composition is functionally redundant. We confirm that distinct bacterial communities are present across unexpectedly small spatial scales suggesting that populations separated by distances of >20 m may be dispersal limited, even within the highly continuous environment of lentic water.	2014	8	10.1038/ismej.2014.21
Barberan, A; Henley, J; Fierer, N; Casamayor, EO	Structure, inter-annual recurrence, and global-scale connectivity of airborne microbial communities	SCIENCE OF THE TOTAL ENVIRONMENT	Dust coming from the large deserts on Earth, such as the Sahara, can travel long distances and be dispersed over thousands of square kilometers. Remote dust deposition rates are increasing as a consequence of global change and may represent a mechanism for intercontinental microbial dispersal. Remote oligotrophic alpine lakes are particularly sensitive to dust inputs and can serve as sentinels of airborne microbial transport and the ecological consequences of accelerated intercontinental microbial migration. In this study, we applied high-throughput sequencing techniques (16S rRNA amplicon pyrosequencing) to characterize the microbial communities of atmospheric deposition collected in the Central Pyrenees (NE Spain) along three years. Additionally, bacteria from soils in Mauritania and from the air-water interface of high altitude Pyrenean lakes were also examined. Communities in aerosol deposition varied in time with a strong seasonal component of interannual similarity. Communities from the same season tended to resemble more each other than those from different seasons. Samples from disparate dates, in turn, slightly tended to have more dissimilar microbial assemblages (i.e., temporal distance decay), overall suggesting that atmospheric deposition may influence sink habitats in a temporally predictable manner. The three habitats examined (soil, deposition, and air-water interface) harbored distinct microbial communities, although airborne samples collected in the Pyrenees during Saharan dust outbreaks were closer to Mauritian soil samples than those collected during no Saharan dust episodes. The three habitats shared c.a. 1.4% of the total number of microbial sequences in the dataset Such successful immigrants were spread in different bacterial classes. Overall, this study suggests that local and regional features may generate global trends in the dynamics and distribution of airborne microbial assemblages, and that the diversity of viable cells in the high atmosphere is likely higher than previously expected. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2014	487	10.1016/j.scitotenv.2014.04.030
Vilar, AG; van Dam, H; van Loon, EE; Vonk, JA; van Der Geest, HG; Admiraal, W	Eutrophication decreases distance decay of similarity in diatom communities	FRESHWATER BIOLOGY	The distance-decay relationship has been claimed to be a predictor for biological diversity because it unites several ecological phenomena such as dispersal ability and environmental structure. The effect of long-term disturbances on distance decay, however, has been widely overlooked, especially for microorganisms. We examine the effect of eutrophication on the distance-decay relationship in communities of attached diatoms in three peatland areas: mesotrophic, eutrophic and hypertrophic. The study follows a spatially explicit sampling scheme, collecting evenly spaced samples along 6-km sampling tracks. The three areas shared 24% of the total number of species, but the different nutrient levels in the three areas are reflected by the prominence of low profile and planktonic diatom species. Our study demonstrates that eutrophication can affect distance-decay relationships by decreasing turnover rates in microorganisms. Diatom communities are shown to be constrained by both environmental and spatial features, whose relative importance depends on the degree of eutrophication. Under eutrophic conditions, species are filtered from the regional species pool and community structure responds strongly to environmental factors (water chemistry variables and depth), while in mesotrophic environments, purely spatial processes play a prominent role in structuring diatom communities. These findings reveal that homogenisation of communities triggered by environmental disturbance is an ecological phenomenon of importance in the microbial world.	2014	59	10.1111/fwb.12363
Zhang, Y; Zhao, ZH; Dai, MH; Jiao, NZ; Herndl, GJ	Drivers shaping the diversity and biogeography of total and active bacterial communities in the South China Sea	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	To test the hypothesis that different drivers shape the diversity and biogeography of the total and active bacterial community, we examined the bacterial community composition along two transects, one from the inner Pearl River estuary to the open waters of the South China Sea (SCS) and the other from the Luzon Strait to the SCS basin, using 454 pyrosequencing of the 16S rRNA and 16S rRNA gene (V1-3 regions) and thereby characterizing the active and total bacterial community, respectively. The diversity and biogeographic patterns differed substantially between the active and total bacterial communities. Although the composition of both the total and active bacterial community was strongly correlated with environmental factors and weakly correlated with geographic distance, the active bacterial community displayed higher environmental sensitivity than the total community and particularly a greater distance effect largely caused by the active assemblage from deep waters. The 16S rRNA vs. rDNA relationships indicated that the active bacteria were low in relative abundance in the SCS. This might be due to a high competition between active bacterial taxa as indicated by our community network models. Based on these analyses, we speculate that high competition could cause some dispersal limitation of the active bacterial community resulting in a distinct distance-decay relationship. Altogether, our results indicated that the biogeographic distribution of bacteria in the SCS is the result of both environmental control and distance decay.	2014	23	10.1111/mec.12739
Pinto, AJ; Schroeder, J; Lunn, M; Sloan, W; Raskin, L	Spatial-Temporal Survey and Occupancy-Abundance Modeling To Predict Bacterial Community Dynamics in the Drinking Water Microbiome	MBIO	Bacterial communities migrate continuously from the drinking water treatment plant through the drinking water distribution system and into our built environment. Understanding bacterial dynamics in the distribution system is critical to ensuring that safe drinking water is being supplied to customers. We present a 15-month survey of bacterial community dynamics in the drinking water system of Ann Arbor, MI. By sampling the water leaving the treatment plant and at nine points in the distribution system, we show that the bacterial community spatial dynamics of distance decay and dispersivity conform to the layout of the drinking water distribution system. However, the patterns in spatial dynamics were weaker than those for the temporal trends, which exhibited seasonal cycling correlating with temperature and source water use patterns and also demonstrated reproducibility on an annual time scale. The temporal trends were driven by two seasonal bacterial clusters consisting of multiple taxa with different networks of association within the larger drinking water bacterial community. Finally, we show that the Ann Arbor data set robustly conforms to previously described interspecific occupancy abundance models that link the relative abundance of a taxon to the frequency of its detection. Relying on these insights, we propose a predictive framework for microbial management in drinking water systems. Further, we recommend that long-term microbial observatories that collect high-resolution, spatially distributed, multiyear time series of community composition and environmental variables be established to enable the development and testing of the predictive framework. IMPORTANCE Safe and regulation-compliant drinking water may contain up to millions of microorganisms per liter, representing phylogenetically diverse groups of bacteria, archaea, and eukarya that affect public health, water infrastructure, and the aesthetic quality of water. The ability to predict the dynamics of the drinking water microbiome will ensure that microbial contamination risks can be better managed. Through a spatial-temporal survey of drinking water bacterial communities, we present novel insights into their spatial and temporal community dynamics and recommend steps to link these insights in a predictive framework for microbial management of drinking water systems. Such a predictive framework will not only help to eliminate microbial risks but also help to modify existing water quality monitoring efforts and make them more resource efficient. Further, a predictive framework for microbial management will be critical if we are to fully anticipate the risks and benefits of the beneficial manipulation of the drinking water microbiome.	2014	5	10.1128/mBio.01135-14
Vaz, ABM; Fontenla, S; Rocha, FS; Brandao, LR; Vieira, MLA; De Garcia, V; Goes-Neto, A; Rosa, CA	Fungal endophyte beta-diversity associated with Myrtaceae species in an Andean Patagonian forest (Argentina) and an Atlantic forest (Brazil)	FUNGAL ECOLOGY	The biogeography of microorganisms is poorly understood and how microbial diversity is structured is still an open debate. We investigated the processes underlying the fungal endophyte assemblages of phylogenetically related Myrtae host tree species at different spatial scales: regional, 101-5 000 km; local, 0-100 km; and microscale, 0-1 km. A total of 939 isolates was obtained and assigned to 51 distinct MOTUs based on the sequencing of the nrITS region. At regional scales, geographic distance was responsible for explaining the fungal community similarity, while, at a local scale, it was the environmental distance. Moreover, fungal endophytes exhibit preference in the colonization of Luma apiculata but not for Myrceugenia ovata var. nanophylla. Our results suggest that fungal endophytes are not randomly distributed and are influenced by both geographic and environment distances depending on the spatial scale analysed. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd and The British Mycological Society. All rights reserved.	2014	8	10.1016/j.funeco.2013.12.008
Zinger, L; Boetius, A; Ramette, A	Bacterial taxa-area and distance-decay relationships in marine environments	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	The taxa-area relationship (TAR) and the distance-decay relationship (DDR) both describe spatial turnover of taxa and are central patterns of biodiversity. Here, we compared TAR and DDR of bacterial communities across different marine realms and ecosystems at the global scale. To obtain reliable global estimates for both relationships, we quantified the poorly assessed effects of sequencing depth, rare taxa removal and number of sampling sites. Slope coefficients of bacterial TARs were within the range of those of plants and animals, whereas slope coefficients of bacterial DDR were much lower. Slope coefficients were mostly affected by removing rare taxa and by the number of sampling sites considered in the calculations. TAR and DDR slope coefficients were overestimated at sequencing depth <4000 sequences per sample. Noticeably, bacterial TAR and DDR patterns did not correlate with each other both within and across ecosystem types, suggesting that (i) TAR cannot be directly derived from DDR and (ii) TAR and DDR may be influenced by different ecological factors. Nevertheless, we found marine bacterial TAR and DDR to be steeper in ecosystems associated with high environmental heterogeneity or spatial isolation, namely marine sediments and coastal environments compared with pelagic ecosystems. Hence, our study provides information on macroecological patterns of marine bacteria, as well as methodological and conceptual insights, at a time when biodiversity surveys increasingly make use of high-throughput sequencing technologies.	2014	23	10.1111/mec.12640
Ni, JJ; Yan, QY; Yu, YH; Zhang, TL	Fish gut microecosystem: a model for detecting spatial pattern of microorganisms	CHINESE JOURNAL OF OCEANOLOGY AND LIMNOLOGY	The spatial distribution pattern of organisms is a basic issue in understanding the mechanisms of community assembly. Although the spatial distributions of animals and plants have been well studied, those of microorganisms are still being debated. In this study, we used a fish gut microecosystem to detect the spatial pattern of microbes, because it can provide a relatively unified and stable environment. Results suggest that the turnover of intestinal bacterial assemblages showed a weak but highly significant negative correlation between similarity and distances in the microbial community, in respect of both grass carp intestinal loci distances and the geographical distance between fish sampling sites. Our results also suggest that intestinal bacterial assemblages responded to differences within the external environment and within different parts of the fish themselves. These results show that some, or possibly all, microbes are restricted in their distribution and that environmental factors are also important influences on the structure of intestinal bacterial assemblages. The fish gut microecosystem is useful in promoting study of the spatial distribution patterns of microorganisms.	2014	32	10.1007/s00343-014-3072-z
Luke, C; Frenzel, P; Ho, A; Fiantis, D; Schad, P; Schneider, B; Schwark, L; Utami, SR	Macroecology of methane-oxidizing bacteria: the beta-diversity of pmoA genotypes in tropical and subtropical rice paddies	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Studies addressing microbial biogeography have increased during the past decade, but research on microbial distribution patterns is still in its infancies, and many aspects are only poorly understood. Here, we compared the methanotroph community in paddy soils sampled in Indonesia, Vietnam, China and Italy, focusing on the distance-decay relationship. We used the pmoA gene as marker for methanotroph diversity in terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism, microarray and pyrosequencing approaches. We could observe a significant increase of -diversity with geographical distance across continents (12000km). Measured environmental parameters explained only a small amount of data variation, and we found no evidence for dispersal limitation. Thus, we propose historical contingencies being responsible for the observed patterns. Furthermore, we performed an in-depth analysis of type II methanotroph pmoA distribution at the sequence level. We used ordination analysis to project sequence dissimilarities into a three-dimensional space (multidimensional scaling). The ordination suggests that type II methanotrophs in paddy fields can be divided into five major groups. However, these groups were found to be distributed in all soils independent of the geographic origin. By including tropical field sites (Indonesia and Vietnam) into the analysis, we further observed the first paddy fields harbouring a methanotroph community depleted in type II methanotrophs.	2014	16	10.1111/1462-2920.12190
Pita, L; Turon, X; Lopez-Legentil, S; Erwin, PM	Host rules: spatial stability of bacterial communities associated with marine sponges (Ircinia spp.) in the Western Mediterranean Sea	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Dispersal limitation and environmental selection are the main processes shaping free-living microbial communities, but host-related factors may also play a major role in structuring symbiotic communities. Here, we aimed to determine the effects of isolation-by-distance and host species on the spatial structure of sponge-associated bacterial communities using as a model the abundant demosponge genus Ircinia. We targeted three co-occurring Ircinia species and used terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) analysis of 16S rRNA gene sequences to explore the differentiation of their bacterial communities across a scale of hundreds of kilometres in the Western Mediterranean Sea. Multivariate analysis and nonmetric multidimensional scaling plots of T-RFLP profiles showed that bacterial communities in Ircinia sponges were structured by host species and remained stable across sampling locations, despite geographic distances (80-800km) and diverse local conditions. While significant differences among some locations were observed in Ircinia variabilis-derived communities, no correlation between geographic distance and community similarity was consistently detected for symbiotic bacteria in any host sponge species. Our results indicate that bacterial communities are mostly shaped by host species-specific factors and suggest that evolutionary processes acting on long-term symbiotic relationships have favored spatial stability of sponge-associated bacterial communities.	2013	86	10.1111/1574-6941.12159
Lee, JE; Buckley, HL; Etienne, RS; Lear, G	Both species sorting and neutral processes drive assembly of bacterial communities in aquatic microcosms	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	A focus of ecology is to determine drivers of community assembly. Here, we investigate effects of immigration and species sorting (environmental selection) on structuring aquatic bacterial communities in both colonised and previously uncolonised environments. We used nonsterilised and presterilised water from three chemically distinct ponds to establish microcosms, which were opened for 12, 24, 48, 96 or 167h and then closed again to allow airborne bacterial immigration and subsequent succession. Community similarity, richness, evenness and the parameters of a neutral model were investigated after 167h. Immigration appeared to govern the assembly of communities in the presterilised water as there were no significant differences in evenness among microcosm communities containing water from each pond. Statistical estimation of neutral model parameters confirmed these findings, because the estimated immigration rate changed significantly with time of exposure to immigration. Species sorting also occurred because significant differences in community similarity (for presterilised and nonsterilised communities) and evenness (only for nonsterilised communities) were detected among microcosms containing different pond water; the magnitude of these differences was greater for communities in nonsterilised microcosms. Our study provides evidence for both processes being important during the colonisation of aquatic environments and presents a novel way to apply the neutral model.	2013	86	10.1111/1574-6941.12161
Yamamura, T; Schwendenmann, L; Lear, G	Tree species identity has little impact on the structure of soil bacterial communities in a 10-year-old tropical tree plantation	BIOLOGY AND FERTILITY OF SOILS	We investigated whether tree species identity has a significant impact on the structure of soil bacterial communities in a tropical tree plantation (Sardinilla, Panama). The experimental site contains tree species native to Panama, planted in both monoculture and mixed-species plots. Using a DNA fingerprinting approach (automated ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis [ARISA]), we identified significant differences in the community structure of abundant bacterial taxa in the bulk soil among all monoculture plots. We similarly found differences among plots containing five, three, one or no tree species. While distance-based gradients in bacterial community structure were detected across the plantation, further investigation revealed that the observed heterogeneity was, in fact, poorly related to the tree species in a given plot. We provide evidence that site related features (e.g., variability in soil pH) play a more important role in regulating the structure of bacterial communities within the bulk soil than tree species identity or richness.	2013	49	10.1007/s00374-013-0774-x
Hatosy, SM; Martiny, JBH; Sachdeva, R; Steele, J; Fuhrman, JA; Martiny, AC	Beta diversity of marine bacteria depends on temporal scale	ECOLOGY	Factors controlling the spatial distribution of bacterial diversity have been intensely studied, whereas less is known about temporal changes. To address this, we tested whether the mechanisms that underlie bacterial temporal -diversity vary across different scales in three marine microbial communities. While seasonal turnover was detected, at least 73% of the community variation occurred at intra-seasonal temporal scales, suggesting that episodic events are important in structuring marine microbial communities. In addition, turnover at different temporal scales appeared to be driven by different factors. Intra-seasonal turnover was significantly correlated to environmental variables such as phosphate and silicate concentrations, while seasonal and interannual turnover were related to nitrate concentration and temporal distance. We observed a strong link between the magnitude of environmental variation and bacterial -diversity in different communities. Analogous to spatial biogeography, we found different rates of community changes across temporal scales.	2013	94	10.1890/12-2125.1
Shade, A; Caporaso, JG; Handelsman, J; Knight, R; Fierer, N	A meta-analysis of changes in bacterial and archaeal communities with time	ISME JOURNAL	Ecologists have long studied the temporal dynamics of plant and animal communities with much less attention paid to the temporal dynamics exhibited by microbial communities. As a result, we do not know if overarching temporal trends exist for microbial communities or if changes in microbial communities are generally predictable with time. Using microbial time series assessed via high-throughput sequencing, we conducted a meta-analysis of temporal dynamics in microbial communities, including 76 sites representing air, aquatic, soil, brewery wastewater treatment, human- and plant-associated microbial biomes. We found that temporal variability in both within- and between-community diversity was consistent among microbial communities from similar environments. Community structure changed systematically with time in less than half of the cases, and the highest rates of change were observed within ranges of 1 day to 1 month for all communities examined. Microbial communities exhibited species-time relationships (STRs), which describe the accumulation of new taxa to a community, similar to those observed previously for plant and animal communities, suggesting that STRs are remarkably consistent across a broad range of taxa. These results highlight that a continued integration of microbial ecology into the broader field of ecology will provide new insight into the temporal patterns of microbial and macro-bial communities alike.	2013	7	10.1038/ismej.2013.54
Pasternak, Z; Al-Ashhab, A; Gatica, J; Gafny, R; Avraham, S; Minz, D; Gillor, O; Jurkevitch, E	Spatial and Temporal Biogeography of Soil Microbial Communities in Arid and Semiarid Regions	PLOS ONE	Microbial communities in soils may change in accordance with distance, season, climate, soil texture and other environmental parameters. Microbial diversity patterns have been extensively surveyed in temperate regions, but few such studies attempted to address them with respect to spatial and temporal scales and their correlations to environmental factors, especially in arid ecosystems. In order to fill this gap on a regional scale, the molecular fingerprints and abundance of three taxonomic groups - Bacteria, alpha-Proteobacteria and Actinobacteria - were sampled from soils 0.5-100 km apart in arid, semi-arid, dry Mediterranean and shoreline Mediterranean regions in Israel. Additionally, on a local scale, the molecular fingerprints of three taxonomic groups - Bacteria, Archaea and Fungi - were sampled from soils 1 cm-500 m apart in the semi-arid region, in both summer and winter. Fingerprints of the Bacteria differentiated between all regions (P<0.02), while those of the a-Proteobacteria differentiated between some of the regions (0.01<P<0.09), and actinobacterial fingerprints were similar among all regions (P>0.05). Locally, fingerprints of archaea and fungi did not display distance-decay relationships (P>0.13), that is, the dissimilarity between communities did not increase with geographic distance. Neither was this phenomenon evident in bacterial samples in summer (P>0.24); in winter, however, differences between bacterial communities significantly increased as the geographic distances between them grew (P<0.01). Microbial community structures, as well as microbial abundance, were both significantly correlated to precipitation and soil characteristics: texture, organic matter and water content (R-2>0.60, P<0.01). We conclude that on the whole, microbial biogeography in arid and semi-arid soils in Israel is determined more by specific environmental factors than geographic distances and spatial distribution patterns.	2013	8	10.1371/journal.pone.0069705
Stock, A; Edgcomb, V; Orsi, W; Filker, S; Breiner, HW; Yakimov, MM; Stoeck, T	Evidence for isolated evolution of deep-sea ciliate communities through geological separation and environmental selection	BMC MICROBIOLOGY	Background: Deep hypersaline anoxic basins (DHABs) are isolated habitats at the bottom of the eastern Mediterranean Sea, which originate from the ancient dissolution of Messinian evaporites. The different basins have recruited their original biota from the same source, but their geological evolution eventually constituted sharp environmental barriers, restricting genetic exchange between the individual basins. Therefore, DHABs are unique model systems to assess the effect of geological events and environmental conditions on the evolution and diversification of protistan plankton. Here, we examine evidence for isolated evolution of unicellular eukaryote protistan plankton communities driven by geological separation and environmental selection. We specifically focused on ciliated protists as a major component of protistan DHAB plankton by pyrosequencing the hypervariable V4 fragment of the small subunit ribosomal RNA. Geospatial distributions and responses of marine ciliates to differential hydrochemistries suggest strong physical and chemical barriers to dispersal that influence the evolution of this plankton group. Results: Ciliate communities in the brines of four investigated DHABs are distinctively different from ciliate communities in the interfaces (haloclines) immediately above the brines. While the interface ciliate communities from different sites are relatively similar to each other, the brine ciliate communities are significantly different between sites. We found no distance-decay relationship, and canonical correspondence analyses identified oxygen and sodium as most important hydrochemical parameters explaining the partitioning of diversity between interface and brine ciliate communities. However, none of the analyzed hydrochemical parameters explained the significant differences between brine ciliate communities in different basins. Conclusions: Our data indicate a frequent genetic exchange in the deep-sea water above the brines. The isolated island character of the different brines, that resulted from geological events and contemporary environmental conditions, create selective pressures driving evolutionary processes, and with time, lead to speciation and shape protistan community composition. We conclude that community assembly in DHABs is a mixture of isolated evolution (as evidenced by small changes in V4 primary structure in some taxa) and species sorting (as indicated by the regional absence/presence of individual taxon groups on high levels in taxonomic hierarchy).	2013	13	10.1186/1471-2180-13-150
Adams, RI; Miletto, M; Taylor, JW; Bruns, TD	Dispersal in microbes: fungi in indoor air are dominated by outdoor air and show dispersal limitation at short distances	ISME JOURNAL	The indoor microbiome is a complex system that is thought to depend on dispersal from the outdoor biome and the occupants microbiome combined with selective pressures imposed by the occupants behaviors and the building itself. We set out to determine the pattern of fungal diversity and composition in indoor air on a local scale and to identify processes behind that pattern. We surveyed airborne fungal assemblages within 1-month time periods at two seasons, with high replication, indoors and outdoors, within and across standardized residences at a university housing facility. Fungal assemblages indoors were diverse and strongly determined by dispersal from outdoors, and no fungal taxa were found as indicators of indoor air. There was a seasonal effect on the fungi found in both indoor and outdoor air, and quantitatively more fungal biomass was detected outdoors than indoors. A strong signal of isolation by distance existed in both outdoor and indoor airborne fungal assemblages, despite the small geographic scale in which this study was undertaken (<500 m). Moreover, room and occupant behavior had no detectable effect on the fungi found in indoor air. These results show that at the local level, outdoor air fungi dominate the patterning of indoor air. More broadly, they provide additional support for the growing evidence that dispersal limitation, even on small geographic scales, is a key process in structuring the often-observed distance-decay biogeographic pattern in microbial communities.	2013	7	10.1038/ismej.2013.28
Wang, JJ; Shen, J; Wu, YC; Tu, C; Soininen, J; Stegen, JC; He, JZ; Liu, XQ; Zhang, L; Zhang, EL	Phylogenetic beta diversity in bacterial assemblages across ecosystems: deterministic versus stochastic processes	ISME JOURNAL	Increasing evidence has emerged for non-random spatial distributions of microbes, but knowledge of the processes that cause variation in microbial assemblage among ecosystems is lacking. For instance, some studies showed that deterministic processes such as habitat specialization are important, while other studies hold that bacterial communities are assembled by stochastic forces. Here we examine the relative influence of deterministic and stochastic processes for bacterial communities from subsurface environments, stream biofilm, lake water, lake sediment and soil using pyrosequencing of the 16S ribosomal RNA gene. We show that there is a general pattern in phylogenetic signal in species ecological niches across recent evolutionary time for all studied habitats, enabling us to infer the influences of community assembly processes from patterns of phylogenetic turnover in community composition. The phylogenetic dissimilarities among-habitat types were significantly higher than within them, and the communities were clustered according to their original habitat types. For communities within-habitat types, the highest phylogenetic turnover rate through space was observed in subsurface environments, followed by stream biofilm on mountainsides, whereas the sediment assemblages across regional scales showed the lowest turnover rate. Quantifying phylogenetic turnover as the deviation from a null expectation suggested that measured environmental variables imposed strong selection on bacterial communities for nearly all sample groups. For three sample groups, spatial distance reflected unmeasured environmental variables that impose selection, as opposed to spatial isolation. Such characterization of spatial and environmental variables proved essential for proper interpretation of partial Mantel results based on observed beta diversity metrics. In summary, our results clearly indicate a dominant role of deterministic processes on bacterial assemblages and highlight that bacteria show strong habitat associations that have likely emerged through evolutionary adaptation.	2013	7	10.1038/ismej.2013.30
Lepere, C; Domaizon, I; Taib, N; Mangot, JF; Bronner, G; Boucher, D; Debroas, D	Geographic distance and ecosystem size determine the distribution of smallest protists in lacustrine ecosystems	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Understanding the spatial distribution of aquatic microbial diversity and the underlying mechanisms causing differences in community composition is a challenging and central goal for ecologists. Recent insights into protistan diversity and ecology are increasing the debate over their spatial distribution. In this study, we investigate the importance of spatial and environmental factors in shaping the small protists community structure in lakes. We analyzed small protists community composition (beta-diversity) and richness (alpha-diversity) at regional scale by different molecular methods targeting the gene coding for 18S rRNA gene (T-RFLP and 454 pyrosequencing). Our results show a distance-decay pattern for rare and dominant taxa and the spatial distribution of the latter followed the prediction of the island biogeography theory. Furthermore, geographic distances between lakes seem to be the main force shaping the protists community composition in the lakes studied here. Finally, the spatial distribution of protists was discussed at the global scale (11 worldwide distributed lakes) by comparing these results with those present in the public database. UniFrac analysis showed 18S rRNA gene OTUs compositions significantly different among most of lakes, and this difference does not seem to be related to the trophic status.	2013	85	10.1111/1574-6941.12100
Sayer, EJ; Wagner, M; Oliver, AE; Pywell, RF; James, P; Whiteley, AS; Heard, MS	Grassland management influences spatial patterns of soil microbial communities	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	Soil micro-organisms play a vital role in grassland ecosystem functioning but little is known about the effects of grassland management on spatial patterns of soil microbial communities. We compared plant species composition with terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) fingerprints of soil bacterial and fungal communities in unimproved, restored and improved wet grasslands. We assessed community composition of soil micro-organisms at distances ranging from 0.01 m to 100 m and determined taxa-area relationships from field- to landscape level. We show that land management type influenced bacterial but not fungal community composition. However, extensive grassland management to restore aboveground diversity affected spatial patterns of soil fungi. We found distinct distance-decay and small-scale aggregation of fungal populations in extensively managed grasslands restored from former arable use. There were no clear spatial patterns in bacterial communities at the field-scale. However, at the landscape level there was a moderate increase in bacterial taxa and a strong increase in fungal taxa with the number of sites sampled. Our results suggest that grassland management affects soil microbial communities at multiple scales; the observed small-scale variation may facilitate plant species coexistence and should be taken into account in field studies of soil microbial communities. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2013	61	10.1016/j.soilbio.2013.02.012
Lear, G; Washington, V; Neale, M; Case, B; Buckley, H; Lewis, G	The biogeography of stream bacteria	GLOBAL ECOLOGY AND BIOGEOGRAPHY	Aim The extent to which bacterial communities exhibit biogeographic patterns in their distribution remains unclear. We examined the relative influence of factors including geographic distance, latitude, elevation and catchment land use on the distribution and taxon richness of stream bacterial communities across New Zealand. Location Bacterial communities were collected from biofilm growing on submerged rocks in 244 streams. Sample sites spanned a northsouth gradient of over 970km, an elevational gradient of c. 750m and were collected from a variety of catchment types across New Zealand. Methods We used automated ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis, a DNA fingerprinting technique, to characterize the structure and taxon richness of each bacterial community. Key attributes relating to sample location, upstream catchment land use and a suite of additional environmental parameters were collected for every site using GIS procedures. Univariate correlations between measures of bacterial community structure and latitude, elevation and distance were examined. Variance partitioning was then used to assess the relative importance of purely spatial factors versus catchment land use and environmental attributes for determining bacterial community structure and taxon richness. Results Bacterial taxon richness was related to the geographic location of the sample site, being significantly greater at latitudes closer to the equator and reduced at higher elevations. We observed distance decay patterns in bacterial community similarity related to geographic distance and latitudinal distance, but not to elevational distance. Overall, however, bacterial community similarity and taxon richness was more closely related to variability in catchment land use than to climatic variability or geographic location. Main conclusion Our data suggest that stream biofilm communities across New Zealand are more influenced by catchment land use attributes than by dispersal limitation.	2013	22	10.1111/geb.12046
Lin, W; Wang, YZ; Gorby, Y; Nealson, K; Pan, YX	Integrating niche-based process and spatial process in biogeography of magnetotactic bacteria	SCIENTIFIC REPORTS	Microorganisms play key roles in biogeochemical and nutrient cycling in all ecosystems on Earth, yet little is known about the processes controlling their biogeographic distributions. Here we report an investigation of magnetotactic bacteria (MTB) designed to evaluate the roles of niche-based process and spatial process in explaining variation in bacterial communities across large spatial scales. Our results show that both environmental heterogeneity and geographic distance play significant roles in shaping dominant populations of MTB community composition. At the spatial scale in this study, the biogeography of MTB is relatively more influenced by environmental factors than geographic distance, suggesting that local conditions override the effects of dispersal history on structuring MTB community. Of note, we found that the strength of geomagnetic field may influence the biogeography of MTB. We argue that MTB have the potential to serve as a model group to uncover the underlying processes that influence microbial biogeography.	2013	3	10.1038/srep01643
Poisot, T; Pequin, B; Gravel, D	High-Throughput Sequencing: A Roadmap Toward Community Ecology	ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION	High-throughput sequencing is becoming increasingly important in microbial ecology, yet it is surprisingly under-used to generate or test biogeographic hypotheses. In this contribution, we highlight how adding these methods to the ecologist toolbox will allow the detection of new patterns, and will help our understanding of the structure and dynamics of diversity. Starting with a review of ecological questions that can be addressed, we move on to the technical and analytical issues that will benefit from an increased collaboration between different disciplines.	2013	3	10.1002/ece3.508
Ranjard, L; Dequiedt, S; Prevost-Boure, NC; Thioulouse, J; Saby, NPA; Lelievre, M; Maron, PA; Morin, FER; Bispo, A; Jolivet, C; Arrouays, D; Lemanceau, P	Turnover of soil bacterial diversity driven by wide-scale environmental heterogeneity	NATURE COMMUNICATIONS	Spatial scaling and determinism of the wide-scale distribution of macroorganism diversity has been largely demonstrated over a century. For microorganisms, and especially for soil bacteria, this fundamental question requires more thorough investigation, as little information has been reported to date. Here by applying the taxa-area relationship to the largest spatially explicit soil sampling available in France (2,085 soils, area covered similar to 5.3 x 10(5) km(2)) and developing an innovative evaluation of the habitat-area relationship, we show that the turnover rate of bacterial diversity in soils on a wide scale is highly significant and strongly correlated with the turnover rate of soil habitat. As the diversity of micro-and macroorganisms appears to be driven by similar processes (dispersal and selection), maintaining diverse and spatially structured habitats is essential for soil biological patrimony and the resulting ecosystem services.	2013	4	10.1038/ncomms2431
Feinstein, LM; Blackwood, CB	The spatial scaling of saprotrophic fungal beta diversity in decomposing leaves	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	Assembly of fungal communities remains poorly understood in part because of the daunting range of spatial scales that may be involved in this process. Here, we use individual leaves as a natural sampling unit, comprising spatially distinct habitat and/or resource patches with unique histories and suites of resources. Spatial patterns in fungal beta diversity were tested for consistency with the metacommunity paradigms of species sorting and neutral dynamics. Thirty senesced leaves were collected from the forest floor (O horizon) in replicate upland forest, riparian forest and vernal pool habitats. We quantified spatial distance between leaves, and fungal community composition was assayed by terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism. Significant distance-decay relationships were detected at all but one upland site. This is the first study where changes in fungal community composition were quantified across discrete adjacent habitat patches, providing evidence that fungal distance decay is operational at a scale of centimetres. Although leaves of differing lignin contents were sampled from each site, leaf type was not consistently important in explaining variation in fungal community composition. However, depth of a leaf within the forest floor significantly influenced community composition at five of six sites. Environmental heterogeneity associated with depth could include moisture gradients, relative influence of soil or spore colonization, and impact of forest floor biotic community (i.e. collembola and earthworms). Because the influence of spatial distance and depth on fungal community composition could not be disentangled, both species-sorting and neutral processes may be embedded within the distance-decay relationships that we found.	2013	22	10.1111/mec.12160
Rodrigues, JLM; Pellizari, VH; Mueller, R; Baek, K; Jesus, ED; Paula, FS; Mirza, B; Hamaoui, GS; Tsai, SM; Feigl, B; Tiedje, JM; Bohannan, BJM; Nusslein, K	Conversion of the Amazon rainforest to agriculture results in biotic homogenization of soil bacterial communities	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	The Amazon rainforest is the Earths largest reservoir of plant and animal diversity, and it has been subjected to especially high rates of land use change, primarily to cattle pasture. This conversion has had a strongly negative effect on biological diversity, reducing the number of plant and animal species and homogenizing communities. We report here that microbial biodiversity also responds strongly to conversion of the Amazon rainforest, but in a manner different from plants and animals. Local taxonomic and phylogenetic diversity of soil bacteria increases after conversion, but communities become more similar across space. This homogenization is driven by the loss of forest soil bacteria with restricted ranges (endemics) and results in a net loss of diversity. This study shows homogenization of microbial communities in response to human activities. Given that soil microbes represent the majority of biodiversity in terrestrial ecosystems and are intimately involved in ecosystem functions, we argue that microbial biodiversity loss should be taken into account when assessing the impact of land use change in tropical forests.	2013	110	10.1073/pnas.1220608110
Soininen, J; Kongas, P	Analysis of nestedness in freshwater assemblages-patterns across species and trophic levels	FRESHWATER SCIENCE	Nestedness measures the degree to which species assemblages are proper subsets of larger assemblages within a metacommunity. We analyzed nestedness in 20 freshwater data sets, each for a single metacommunity within a drainage basin. First, we examined the degree of nestedness across local assemblages and identified major environmental correlates of nestedness at sites. Second, we examined whether nestedness showed concordance among trophic levels. Third, we examined whether nested and idiosyncratic species (i.e., species that have unpredictable gaps in their distribution) differed ecologically and showed dissimilar distribution patterns along geographical and environmental gradients. Degrees of nestedness, obtained using a metric by Almeida-Neto et al. (2008), ranged from 22.9 to 57.0, with 11 matrices showing significant nestedness. Lake bacteria had a higher degree of nestedness than did phytoor zooplankton. The degree of nestedness was related mainly to water temperature, conductivity, and trophic status of the water, results suggesting that habitat quality may be an important predictor of nestedness, but was only weakly concordant among trophic levels within metacommunities. However, averaged across all metacommunities, nestedness values between phytoplankton and zooplankton and between phytoplankton and bacteria were positively correlated. Nested and idiosyncratic species did not differ in their spatial and environmental distribution patterns. Freshwater planktonic assemblages were characterized by a relatively low degree of nestedness. The low congruence in nestedness among trophic levels suggests that assemblages typically show independent gradients of nestedness. This result indicates that assemblages respond dissimilarly to driving forces, such as habitat quality, or that nestedness in freshwaters might be related to stochastic colonization. Conserving only the most diverse sites may not protect rare species because of the relatively low degree of nestedness in fresh waters.	2012	31	10.1899/12-043.1
Shade, A; Read, JS; Youngblut, ND; Fierer, N; Knight, R; Kratz, TK; Lottig, NR; Roden, EE; Stanley, EH; Stombaugh, J; Whitaker, RJ; Wu, CH; McMahon, KD	Lake microbial communities are resilient after a whole-ecosystem disturbance	ISME JOURNAL	Disturbances act as powerful structuring forces on ecosystems. To ask whether environmental microbial communities have capacity to recover after a large disturbance event, we conducted a whole-ecosystem manipulation, during which we imposed an intense disturbance on freshwater microbial communities by artificially mixing a temperate lake during peak summer thermal stratification. We employed environmental sensors and water chemistry analyses to evaluate the physical and chemical responses of the lake, and bar-coded 16S ribosomal RNA gene pyrosequencing and automated ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis (ARISA) to assess the bacterial community responses. The artificial mixing increased mean lake temperature from 14 to 20 degrees C for seven weeks after mixing ended, and exposed the microorganisms to very different environmental conditions, including increased hypolimnion oxygen and increased epilimnion carbon dioxide concentrations. Though overall ecosystem conditions remained altered (with hypolimnion temperatures elevated from 6 to 20 degrees C), bacterial communities returned to their pre-manipulation state as some environmental conditions, such as oxygen concentration, recovered. Recovery to pre-disturbance community composition and diversity was observed within 7 (epilimnion) and 11 (hypolimnion) days after mixing. Our results suggest that some microbial communities have capacity to recover after a major disturbance. The ISME Journal (2012) 6, 2153-2167; doi:10.1038/ismej.2012.56; published online 28 June 2012	2012	6	10.1038/ismej.2012.56
Michaud, AB; Sabacka, M; Priscu, JC	Cyanobacterial diversity across landscape units in a polar desert: Taylor Valley, Antarctica	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Life in the Taylor Valley, Antarctica, is dominated by microorganisms, with cyanobacteria being key primary producers in the region. Despite their abundance and ecological importance, the factors controlling biogeography, diversity, dispersal of cyanobacteria in Taylor Valley and other polar environments are poorly understood. Owing to persistent high winds, we hypothesize that the cyanobacterial diversity across this polar landscape is influenced by aeolian processes. Using molecular and pigment analysis, we describe the cyanobacterial diversity present in several prominent habitats across the Taylor Valley. Our data show that the diversity of cyanobacteria increases from the upper portion of the valley towards the McMurdo Sound. This trend is likely due to the net transport of organisms in a down-valley direction, consistent with the prevailing orientation of high-energy, episodic fohn winds. Genomic analysis of cyanobacteria present in aeolian material also suggests that wind mixes the cyanobacterial phylotypes among the landscape units. Our 16S rRNA gene sequence data revealed that (1) many of the cyanobacterial phylotypes present in our study site are common in polar or alpine environments, (2) many operational taxonomic units (OTUs) (22) were endemic to Antarctica and (3) four OTUs were potentially endemic to the McMurdo Dry Valleys.	2012	82	10.1111/j.1574-6941.2012.01297.x
Finkel, OM; Burch, AY; Elad, T; Huse, SM; Lindow, SE; Post, AF; Belkin, S	Distance-Decay Relationships Partially Determine Diversity Patterns of Phyllosphere Bacteria on Tamarix Trees across the Sonoran Desert (vol 78, pg 6187, 2012)	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY		2012	78	10.1128/AEM.02505-12
Wetzel, CE; Bicudo, DD; Ector, L; Lobo, EA; Soininen, J; Landeiro, VL; Bini, LM	Distance Decay of Similarity in Neotropical Diatom Communities	PLOS ONE	Background: The regression of similarity against distance unites several ecological phenomena, and thus provides a highly useful approach for illustrating the spatial turnover across sites. Our aim was to test whether the rates of decay in community similarity differ between diatom growth forms suggested to show different dispersal ability. We hypothesized that the diatom group with lower dispersal ability (i.e. periphyton) would show higher distance decay rates than a group with higher dispersal ability (i.e. plankton). Methods/Principal findings: Periphyton and phytoplankton samples were gathered at sites distributed over an area of approximately 800 km length in the Negro River, Amazon basin, Brazil, South America (3 degrees 0800  S; 59 degrees 5430  W). Distance decay relationships were then estimated using distance-based regressions, and the coefficients of these regressions were compared among the groups with different dispersal abilities to assess our predictions. We found evidence that different tributaries and reaches of the Negro River harbor different diatom communities. As expected, the rates of distance decay in community similarity were higher for periphyton than for phytoplankton indicating the lower dispersal ability of periphytic taxa. Conclusions/Significance: Our study demonstrates that the comparison of distance decay relationships among taxa with similar ecological requirements, but with different growth form and thus dispersal ability provides a sound approach to evaluate the effects of dispersal ability on beta diversity patterns. Our results are also in line with the growing body of evidence indicating that microorganisms exhibit biogeographic patterns. Finally, we underscore that clumbing all microbial taxa into one group may be a flawed approach to test whether microbes exhibit biogeographic patterns.	2012	7	10.1371/journal.pone.0045071
Stegen, JC; Lin, XJ; Konopka, AE; Fredrickson, JK	Stochastic and deterministic assembly processes in subsurface microbial communities	ISME JOURNAL	A major goal of microbial community ecology is to understand the forces that structure community composition. Deterministic selection by specific environmental factors is sometimes important, but in other cases stochastic or ecologically neutral processes dominate. Lacking is a unified conceptual framework aiming to understand why deterministic processes dominate in some contexts but not others. Here we work toward such a framework. By testing predictions derived from general ecological theory we aim to uncover factors that govern the relative influences of deterministic and stochastic processes. We couple spatiotemporal data on subsurface microbial communities and environmental parameters with metrics and null models of within and between community phylogenetic composition. Testing for phylogenetic signal in organismal niches showed that more closely related taxa have more similar habitat associations. Community phylogenetic analyses further showed that ecologically similar taxa coexist to a greater degree than expected by chance. Environmental filtering thus deterministically governs subsurface microbial community composition. More importantly, the influence of deterministic environmental filtering relative to stochastic factors was maximized at both ends of an environmental variation gradient. A stronger role of stochastic factors was, however, supported through analyses of phylogenetic temporal turnover. Although phylogenetic turnover was on average faster than expected, most pairwise comparisons were not themselves significantly non-random. The relative influence of deterministic environmental filtering over community dynamics was elevated, however, in the most temporally and spatially variable environments. Our results point to general rules governing the relative influences of stochastic and deterministic processes across micro- and macro-organisms. The ISME Journal (2012) 6, 1653-1664; doi:10.1038/ismej.2012.22; published online 29 March 2012	2012	6	10.1038/ismej.2012.22
Finkel, OM; Burch, AY; Elad, T; Huse, SM; Lindow, SE; Post, AF; Belkin, S	Distance-Decay Relationships Partially Determine Diversity Patterns of Phyllosphere Bacteria on Tamrix Trees across the Sonoran Desert	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Dispersal limitation in phyllosphere communities was measured on the leaf surfaces of salt-excreting Tamarix trees, which offer unique, discrete habitats for microbial assemblages. We employed 16S rRNA gene pyrosequencing to measure bacterial community dissimilarity on leaves of spatially dispersed Tamarix specimens in sites with uniform climatic conditions across the Sonoran Desert in the Southwestern United States. Our analyses revealed diverse bacterial communities with four dominant phyla that exhibited differential effects of environmental and geographic variables. Geographical distance was the most important parameter that affected community composition, particularly that of betaproteobacteria, which displayed a statistically significant, distance-decay relationship.	2012	78	10.1128/AEM.00888-12
Ragon, M; Fontaine, MC; Moreira, D; Lopez-Garcia, P	Different biogeographic patterns of prokaryotes and microbial eukaryotes in epilithic biofilms	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	Microbial biogeography studies expend much effort in determining whether environmental selection or stochastic processes related to dispersal are more important in shaping community composition. While both types of factors are possibly influential, it is tacitly assumed that protists, or microbial eukaryotes in general, behave biogeographically as prokaryotes because of their small physical size. However, direct evidence for this in exactly the same environment and at the same phylogenetic depth is lacking. In this study, we compared the structure of both prokaryotic and eukaryotic components of microbial communities forming biofilms on mineral substrates in different geographic locations at the level of small-subunit (SSU) rRNA-based operational taxonomic units (OTUs). These microbial communities are subjected to strong environmental selection and contain significant proportions of extremophilic microorganisms adapted to desiccation and UV radiation. We find that the nature of the substrate as well as climatic variables and geography influences microbial community structure. However, constrained correspondence analyses and distancedecay curves showed that, whereas the substrate type was the most significant factor structuring bacterial communities, geographic location was the most influential factor for microbial eukaryote communities. Biological explanations implying a higher dispersal success for bacteria combined with more mobile lifestyles for predatory protists may underlie these different prokaryote versus microbial eukaryote biogeographic patterns.	2012	21	10.1111/j.1365-294X.2012.05659.x
Hanson, CA; Fuhrman, JA; Horner-Devine, MC; Martiny, JBH	Beyond biogeographic patterns: processes shaping the microbial landscape	NATURE REVIEWS MICROBIOLOGY	Recently, microbiologists have established the existence of biogeographic patterns among a wide range of microorganisms. The focus of the field is now shifting to identifying the mechanisms that shape these patterns. Here, we propose that four processes - selection, drift, dispersal and mutation - create and maintain microbial biogeographic patterns on inseparable ecological and evolutionary scales. We consider how the interplay of these processes affects one biogeographic pattern, the distance-decay relationship, and review evidence from the published literature for the processes driving this pattern in microorganisms. Given the limitations of inferring processes from biogeographic patterns, we suggest that studies should focus on directly testing the underlying processes.	2012	10	10.1038/nrmicro2795
De Bie, T; De Meester, L; Brendonck, L; Martens, K; Goddeeris, B; Ercken, D; Hampel, H; Denys, L; Vanhecke, L; Van der Gucht, K; Van Wichelen, J; Vyverman, W; Declerck, SAJ	Body size and dispersal mode as key traits determining metacommunity structure of aquatic organisms	ECOLOGY LETTERS	Relationships between traits of organisms and the structure of their metacommunities have so far mainly been explored with meta-analyses. We compared metacommunities of a wide variety of aquatic organism groups (12 groups, ranging from bacteria to fish) in the same set of 99 ponds to minimise biases inherent to meta-analyses. In the category of passive dispersers, large-bodied groups showed stronger spatial patterning than small-bodied groups suggesting an increasing impact of dispersal limitation with increasing body size. Metacommunities of organisms with the ability to fly (i.e. insect groups) showed a weaker imprint of dispersal limitation than passive dispersers with similar body size. In contrast, dispersal movements of vertebrate groups (fish and amphibians) seemed to be mainly confined to local connectivity patterns. Our results reveal that body size and dispersal mode are important drivers of metacommunity structure and these traits should therefore be considered when developing a predictive framework for metacommunity dynamics.	2012	15	10.1111/j.1461-0248.2012.01794.x
Chytry, M; Lososova, Z; Horsak, M; Uher, B; Cejka, T; Danihelka, J; Fajmon, K; Hajek, O; Jurickova, L; Kintrova, K; Lanikova, D; Otypkova, Z; Rehorek, V; Tichy, L	Dispersal limitation is stronger in communities of microorganisms than macroorganisms across Central European cities	JOURNAL OF BIOGEOGRAPHY	Aim It is generally believed that communities of small organisms, or those with small propagules, are structured mainly by local niche-based processes, and less by dispersal limitation. Conversely, weaker environmental and stronger spatial structure, indicating dispersal limitation, are expected to occur more frequently in communities of large organisms. However, this hypothesis has rarely been tested by comparing spatial and environmental effects across groups of organisms of different size (or with different size of propagules) sampled at the same set of sites. Here, we test it in urban environments. Location Thirty-two cities in 10 countries of Central Europe and Benelux. Methods We compared effects of spatial location and climate on species composition of different groups of organisms sampled in corresponding types of urban habitats. The studied groups were: (1) subaerial cyanobacteria and algae, (2) vascular plants, (3) land snails; and subgroups of vascular plants with different life form and dispersal mode, namely: (4) herbs, (5) animal-dispersed trees and shrubs, and (6) wind-dispersed trees and shrubs. Data were analysed by variation partitioning based on redundancy analysis (RDA) with principal coordinates of neighbour matrices (PCNM). Eighteen PCNM eigenvectors (expressing spatial effects) and mean annual temperature, JulyJanuary temperature difference and annual precipitation sum (expressing environmental effects) were used as explanatory variables. Results Pure effects of climate on species composition, indicating niche-based processes, were not significant for any group or subgroup of the studied organisms. In contrast, pure effects of space, indicating dispersal limitation, were significant for all groups and subgroups except herbs. Surprisingly, the community of cyanobacteria/algae possessed much stronger spatial structure independent of climate than communities of larger organisms, although cyanobacteria/algae had the lowest beta diversity among the studied cities. Main conclusions We hypothesize that the community of subaerial cyanobacteria/algae is structured by natural processes which involve dispersal limitation, whereas communities of urban plants and snails are influenced by human-assisted dispersal of their propagules between cities, which results in weaker dispersal limitation. Our study indicates that dispersal vectors can be more important for community structure than size of organisms or of their propagules.	2012	39	10.1111/j.1365-2699.2011.02664.x
Astorga, A; Oksanen, J; Luoto, M; Soininen, J; Virtanen, R; Muotka, T	Distance decay of similarity in freshwater communities: do macro- and microorganisms follow the same rules?	GLOBAL ECOLOGY AND BIOGEOGRAPHY	Aim An intensively debated issue in macroecology is whether unicellular organisms show biogeographic patterns different from those of macroorganisms. One aspect of this debate addresses beta diversity, that is, do microbial organisms exhibit distance-decay patterns similar to those of macroorganisms? And if so, is the decay of community similarity caused by spatially limited dispersal or by niche-related factors? We studied the community similarity of stream diatoms, macroinvertebrates and bryophytes across the same set of sites in relation to environmental and geographic distance. Location A geographical gradient of c. 1100 km in Finland. Methods We first identified the subset of environmental variables that produced the highest correlation with community similarities for each taxonomic group. Based on these variables, we used partial Mantel tests to separate the independent influences of environmental and geographical distance for distance decay of community similarity, separately for diatoms, bryophytes and macroinvertebrates. Finally, macroinvertebrates were divided into three groups based on their different dispersal categories and a partial Mantel test was used to assess whether each of these groups were differently affected by environmental versus geographic distance, i.e. is dispersal a key factor in tests of niche versus neutral models. Results The level of environmental control was by far the strongest for diatoms; however, all groups were controlled more by environmental factors than by limited dispersal. Macroinvertebrate species with low dispersal ability were significantly related to geographic distance, while more effective dispersers showed no relationship to geography but were instead strongly related to environmental distance. Main conclusions Our results suggest that patterns between macro- and microorganisms are not fundamentally different, but the level of environmental control varies according to dispersal ability. The relative importance of niche versus dispersal processes is not simply a function of organism size but other traits ( e. g. life-history type, dispersal capacity) may obscure this relationship.	2012	21	10.1111/j.1466-8238.2011.00681.x
Soininen, J	Macroecology of unicellular organisms - patterns and processes	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY REPORTS	Macroecology examines the relationship between organisms and their environment at large spatial (and temporal) scales. Typically, macroecologists explain the large-scale patterns of abundance, distribution and diversity. Despite the difficulties in sampling and characterizing microbial diversity, macroecologists have recently also been interested in unicellular organisms. Here, I review the current advances made in microbial macroecology, as well as discuss related ecosystem functions. Overall, it seems that microorganisms suit surprisingly well to known species abundance distributions and show positive relationship between distribution and adundance. Microbial species-area and distance-decay relationships tend to be weaker than for macroorganisms, but nonetheless significant. Few findings on altitudinal gradients in unicellular taxa seem to differ greatly from corresponding findings for larger taxa, whereas latitudinal gradients among microorganisms have either been clearly evident or absent depending on the context. Literature also strongly emphasizes the role of spatial scale for the patterns of diversity and suggests that patterns are affected by species traits as well as ecosystem characteristics. Finally, I discuss the large role of local biotic and abiotic variables driving the community assembly in unicellular taxa and eventually dictating how multiple ecosystem processes are performed. Present review highlights the fact that most microorganisms may not differ fundamentally from larger taxa in their large-scale distribution patterns. Yet, review also shows that many aspects of microbial macroecology are still relatively poorly understood and specific patterns depend on focal taxa and ecosystem concerned.	2012	4	10.1111/j.1758-2229.2011.00308.x
Martiny, JBH; Eisen, JA; Penn, K; Allison, SD; Horner-Devine, MC	Drivers of bacterial beta-diversity depend on spatial scale	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	The factors driving beta-diversity (variation in community composition) yield insights into the maintenance of biodiversity on the planet. Here we tested whether the mechanisms that underlie bacterial beta-diversity vary over centimeters to continental spatial scales by comparing the composition of ammonia-oxidizing bacteria communities in salt marsh sediments. As observed in studies of macroorganisms, the drivers of salt marsh bacterial beta-diversity depend on spatial scale. In contrast to macroorganism studies, however, we found no evidence of evolutionary diversification of ammonia-oxidizing bacteria taxa at the continental scale, despite an overall relationship between geographic distance and community similarity. Our data are consistent with the idea that dispersal limitation at local scales can contribute to beta-diversity, even though the 16S rRNA genes of the relatively common taxa are globally distributed. These results highlight the importance of considering multiple spatial scales for understanding microbial biogeography.	2011	108	10.1073/pnas.1016308108
Soininen, J; Korhonen, JJ; Karhu, J; Vetterli, A	Disentangling the spatial patterns in community composition of prokaryotic and eukaryotic lake plankton	LIMNOLOGY AND OCEANOGRAPHY	We sampled 100 small lakes in Finland for bacterio-, phyto-, and zooplankton. The lakes were located in five drainage systems, 20 lakes for each system. We tested two main predictions: that the correlation between community similarity and geographical distance (spatial distance decay) is stronger at the across-drainage than at the within-drainage system scale, and that spatial distance decay is strongest for zooplankton and weakest for bacteria. We used a combination of direct ordination, multivariate statistical tests, and distance-based approaches to examine spatial patterns in our data. Our analyses confirmed both of our predictions. Spatial distance decay was scale-dependent; communities were overall weakly spatially structured within the drainage systems, yet distance decay was significant for all planktonic groups across drainage systems. Spatial distance decay was stronger for zooplankton, with higher slopes and shorter halving distances, than for phytoplankton and bacteria. These results provide evidence that distance decay of similarity is related to study scale, environment, and organism characteristics. Planktonic communities may be controlled by both dispersal-driven assembly and local ecological determinism, with the balance between these two forces depending on study scale.	2011	56	10.4319/lo.2011.56.2.0508
van der Gast, CJ; Gosling, P; Tiwari, B; Bending, GD	Spatial scaling of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungal diversity is affected by farming practice	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	P>Evidence suggests that microbial communities show patterns of spatial scaling which can be driven by geographical distance and environmental heterogeneity. Here we demonstrate that human management can have a major impact on microbial distribution patterns at both the local and landscape scale. Mycorrhizal fungi are vital components of terrestrial ecosystems, forming a mutualistic symbiosis with plant roots which has a major impact on above ground ecology and productivity. We used contrasting agricultural systems to investigate the spatial scaling of the most widespread mycorrhizal fungus group, the arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF). Using multiple sampling sites with a maximum separation of 250 km we describe for the first time the roles which land management, environmental heterogeneity and geographical distance play in determining spatial patterns of microbial distribution. Analysis of AMF taxa-area relationships at each sampling site revealed that AMF diversity and spatial turnover was greater under organic relative to conventional farm management. At the regional scale (250 km) distance-decay analyses showed that there was significant change in AMF community composition with distance, and that this was greater under organic relative to conventional management. Environmental heterogeneity was found to be the major factor determining turnover of AMF taxa at the landscape scale. Overall we demonstrate that human management can play a key role in determining the turnover of microbial communities at both the local and regional scales.	2011	13	10.1111/j.1462-2920.2010.02326.x
Queloz, V; Sieber, TN; Holdenrieder, O; McDonald, BA; Grunig, CR	No biogeographical pattern for a root-associated fungal species complex	GLOBAL ECOLOGY AND BIOGEOGRAPHY	Aim The biogeography of microbes is poorly understood and there is an open debate regarding if and how microbial biodiversity is structured. At the beginning of the 20th century, Baas Becking laid the foundations for the biogeography of microbes by stating that Everything is everywhere, but the environment selects (the EisE hypothesis). This hypothesis remained dogma for almost a century. However, the recognition that microbial species are often assemblages of reproductively isolated lineages challenged the EisE hypothesis, leading to the now common assumption that microbial communities possess cryptic biogeographic structures. We tested the presence of a cryptic biogeographical structure for a well-characterized fungal species complex (the Phialocephala fortinii s.l.-Acephala applanata species complex, PAC) using precise molecular species resolution. In addition, we analysed factors that could govern PAC community assembling. Locations Forty-four study sites in temperate and boreal forests across the Northern Hemisphere were included. Methods (1) The distance-decay relationship among PAC communities was calculated and a resampling procedure was applied to analyse the effect of sampling intensity and geographic distances among PAC communities. (2) Factors shaping PAC communities (e.g. climatic factors and tree species composition) were studied. (3) We tested PAC communities for random composition. Results We found that the similarity of species assemblages did not decrease with increasing geographical distance. Moreover, species diversity did not increase by expanding the area sampled. Instead, species diversity increased by increasing the sampling effort. Community composition correlated neither with tree species composition nor climate, and no association among species was observed. Main conclusions We could not discover any cryptic biogeographic structure even after applying refined species assignment but we demonstrate the importance of sampling effort for understanding the biogeography of microorganisms. Moreover, we show that primarily stochastic effects are responsible for the species composition of PAC communities.	2011	20	10.1111/j.1466-8238.2010.00589.x
Bell, T	Experimental tests of the bacterial distance-decay relationship	ISME JOURNAL	Community similarity declines with increasing geographic distance if species tend to be locally adapted or if they are dispersal limited. The distance-decay of similarity has been shown for bacteria previously, but distinguishing between these competing mechanisms is difficult from observational surveys. I found little evidence of a relationship between geographic distance and similarity in community composition in an aquatic bacterial community. When bacterial colonization occurred into initially identical sterile microcosms across a woodland, a strong distance-decay relationship was observed after 28 days, implying that dispersal limitation created a strong pattern in these communities in the absence of environmental differences. This conclusion was not supported by the results of a reciprocal transplant experiment. When microcosms at the extremities of the study area were transplanted to the opposite end of the study area, the communities converged on the community composition at the site to which they were transplanted. This convergence did not depend on whether colonization into the microcosms was prevented, implying a minor role for dispersal limitation over these spatial and temporal scales. Additional manipulations of colonization rates were consistent with the hypothesis that dispersal limitation structured these communities over short time scales (a few days), but that dispersal limitation had a minor role over longer time scales (47 days). The ISME Journal (2010) 4, 1357-1365; doi: 10.1038/ismej.2010.77; published online 10 June 2010	2010	4	10.1038/ismej.2010.77
Mazaris, AD; Moustaka-Gouni, M; Michaloudi, E; Bobori, DC	Biogeographical patterns of freshwater micro- and macroorganisms: a comparison between phytoplankton, zooplankton and fish in the eastern Mediterranean	JOURNAL OF BIOGEOGRAPHY	Aim We investigated the biogeographical patterns of phytoplankton, zooplankton and fish in freshwater ecosystems. We tested whether spatial distance or environmental heterogeneity act as potential factors controlling community composition. Location Northern and central Greece, eastern Mediterranean. Method Data on 310 phytoplankton, 72 zooplankton and 37 fish species were collected from seven freshwater systems. Species occurrence data were used to generate similarity matrices describing community composition. We performed Mantel tests to compare spatial patterns in community composition of phytoplankton, zooplankton and fish. Next, we examined the correlation between geographical distance and the degree of similarity in community composition. The analysis was repeated for different taxonomic, trophic and size-based groups of the microorganisms studied. We assessed different environmental variables (topographic and limnological) as predictors of community composition. Results Phytoplankton community composition showed a strong positive correlation with environmental heterogeneity but was not correlated with the geographical distance between systems. Zooplankton community composition was unrelated to geographical distance and was only weakly correlated with environmental variables. In contrast, fish community similarity decayed significantly with distance. We found no relationship along all pairwise comparisons of the compositional matrices of the three groups. The pairwise comparisons of the different taxonomic, trophic and size-based groups of the microorganism communities studied were in accordance with the results for the entire microorganism community. Main conclusions Our results support the proposition that the biogeography of microorganisms does not demonstrate a distance-decay pattern and further suggest that, in reality, the drivers of distribution depend on the specific community examined. In contrast, the biogeography of macroorganisms was affected by geographical distance. These differences reflect the dispersal abilities of the different organisms. The microorganisms exhibit passive dispersal through the air, with local environmental conditions structuring their community composition. On the other hand, for macroorganisms such as fish, the terrestrial environment could pose barriers to their dispersal; with fish structuring distinctive communities over greater distances. Overall, we suggest that the biogeography of freshwater phytoplankton and zooplankton reflects contemporary environmental conditions, while the biogeographical patterns for fish inhabiting the same systems are related to factors affecting their dispersal ability.	2010	37	10.1111/j.1365-2699.2010.02294.x
Schauer, R; Bienhold, C; Ramette, A; Harder, J	Bacterial diversity and biogeography in deep-sea surface sediments of the South Atlantic Ocean	ISME JOURNAL	Microbial biogeographic patterns in the deep sea depend on the ability of microorganisms to disperse. One possible limitation to microbial dispersal may be the Walvis Ridge that separates the Antarctic Lower Circumpolar Deep Water from the North Atlantic Deep Water. We examined bacterial communities in three basins of the eastern South Atlantic Ocean to determine diversity and biogeography of bacterial communities in deep-sea surface sediments. The analysis of 16S ribosomal RNA (rRNA) gene clone libraries in each basin revealed a high diversity, representing 521 phylotypes with 98% identity in 1051 sequences. Phylotypes affiliated with Gammaproteobacteria, Deltaproteobacteria and Acidobacteria were present in all three basins. The distribution of these shared phylotypes seemed to be influenced neither by the Walvis Ridge nor by different deep water masses, suggesting a high dispersal capability, as also indicated by low distance-decay relationships. However, the total bacterial diversity showed significant differences between the basins, based on 16S rRNA gene sequences as well as on terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism fingerprints. Noticeably, both geographic distance and environmental heterogeneity influenced bacterial diversity at intermediate (10-3000 km) and large scales (43000 km), indicating a complex interplay of local contemporary environmental effects and dispersal limitation. The ISME Journal (2010) 4, 159-170; doi: 10.1038/ismej.2009.106; published online 15 October 2009	2010	4	10.1038/ismej.2009.106
Miller, SR; Strong, AL; Jones, KL; Ungerer, MC	Bar-Coded Pyrosequencing Reveals Shared Bacterial Community Properties along the Temperature Gradients of Two Alkaline Hot Springs in Yellowstone National Park	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	An understanding of how communities are organized is a fundamental goal of ecology but one which has historically been elusive for microbial systems. We used a bar-coded pyrosequencing approach targeting the V3 region of the bacterial small-subunit rRNA gene to address the factors that structure communities along the thermal gradients of two alkaline hot springs in the Lower Geyser Basin of Yellowstone National Park. The filtered data set included a total of nearly 34,000 sequences from 39 environmental samples. Each was assigned to one of 391 operational taxonomic units (OTUs) identified by their unique V3 sequence signatures. Although the two hot springs differed in their OTU compositions, community resemblance and diversity changed with strikingly similar dynamics along the two outflow channels. Two lines of evidence suggest that these community properties are controlled primarily by environmental temperature. First, community resemblance decayed exponentially with increasing differences in temperature between samples but was only weakly correlated with physical distance. Second, diversity decreased with increasing temperature at the same rate along both gradients but was uncorrelated with other measured environmental variables. This study also provides novel insights into the nature of the ecological interactions among important taxa in these communities. A strong negative association was observed between cyanobacteria and the Chloroflexi, which together accounted for similar to 70% of the sequences sampled. This pattern contradicts the longstanding hypothesis that coadapted lineages of these bacteria maintain tightly cooccurring distributions along these gradients as a result of a producer-consumer relationship. We propose that they instead compete for some limiting resource(s).	2009	75	10.1128/AEM.02792-08
Wang, JJ; Wu, YC; Jiang, HC; Li, CH; Dong, HL; Wu, QL; Soininen, J; Shen, J	High beta diversity of bacteria in the shallow terrestrial subsurface	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	While there have been a vast number of studies on bacterial alpha diversity in the shallow terrestrial subsurface, beta diversity - how the bacterial community composition changes with spatial distance - has received surprisingly limited attention. Here, bacterial beta diversity and its controlling factors are investigated by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis and cloning of samples from a 700-cm-long sediment core, the lower half of which consisted of marine-originated sediments. According to canonical correspondence analysis with variation partitioning, contemporary environmental variables explain beta diversity in a greater proportion than depth. However, we also found that community similarity decayed significantly with spatial distance and the slopes of the distance-decay relationships are relatively high. The high beta diversity indicates that the bacterial distribution patterns are not only controlled by contemporary environments, but also related to historical events, that is, dispersal or depositional history. This is highlighted by the different beta diversity patterns among studied sediment layers. We thus conclude that the high beta diversity in the shallow terrestrial subsurface is a trade-off between historical events and environmental heterogeneity. Furthermore, we suggest that the high beta diversity of bacteria is likely to be recapitulated in other terrestrial sites because of the great frequency of high geochemical and/or historical variations along depth.	2008	10	10.1111/j.1462-2920.2008.01678.x
Beckerman, B; Jerrett, M; Brook, JR; Verma, DK; Arain, MA; Finkelstein, MM	Correlation of nitrogen dioxide with other traffic pollutants near a major expressway	ATMOSPHERIC ENVIRONMENT	Objectives: This study addresses three objectives: (1) to assess the correlation of NO2 to other ambient pollutants measured with passive samplers; (2) to explore peak traffic particulate matter air pollution correlations with passively measured NO2; and (3) to pilot an advanced mobile air pollution laboratory to supply supplementary information on correlations between NO2 and other air pollutants. Methods: Active and passive monitoring was conducted at two transects perpendicular to an expressway with nearly 400,000 vehicles per day. NO2, NOx, O-3, VOCs, fine-particles and ultrafine particles were measured at increasing distance away from the expressway. The measurement equipment included Ogawa, TraceAir and 3 M organic vapor monitors (OVM-3500) passive samplers, and an array of active measurement equipment: Dust-Trak and P-Trak monitors, chemoluminescent analyzer, aethalometer, tapered element oscillating microbalance, Grimm condensation particle counter, and an lonicon analytik proton transfer reaction mass spectrometer. Results: Levels of NO2 were observed to decay with increasing distance from the expressway, declining to background levels by 300 m. Moderate to high correlations were observed between passive NO2 measurements and passive NOx, O-3 (r similar to 0.60-0.86). The correlations with active PM measurements made with Dust-Trak and P-Trak monitors were in the range 0.64-0.78; correlations between NO2 and VOCs were more variable. Active measurements of NO2 and PM2.5, ultrafine particles, O-3 and black carbon, had high correlations (r similar to 0.7-0.96). Discussion: The variability of many traffic-related pollutants around an expressway is characterized well by passive measurements of NO2. Further research is needed to assess whether these relationships hold in different traffic and land-use environments. (c) 2007 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2008	42	10.1016/j.atmosenv.2007.09.042
Green, J; Bohannan, BJM	Spatial scaling of microbial biodiversity	TRENDS IN ECOLOGY & EVOLUTION	A central goal in ecology is to understand the spatial scaling of biodiversity. Patterns in the spatial distribution of organisms provide important clues about the underlying mechanisms that structure ecological communities and are central to setting conservation priorities. Although microorganisms comprise much of Earths biodiversity, little is known about their biodiversity scaling relationships relative to that for plants and animals. Here, we discuss current knowledge of microbial diversity at local and global scales. We focus on three spatial patterns: the distance-decay relationship (how community composition changes with geographic distance), the taxa-area relationship, and the local: global taxa richness ratio. Recent empirical analyses of these patterns for microorganisms suggest that there are biodiversity scaling rules common to all forms of life.	2006	21	10.1016/j.tree.2006.06.012
Langen, R; Colon, JL; Casimiro, DR; Karpishin, TB; Winkler, JR; Gray, HB	Electron tunneling in proteins: Role of the intervening medium	JOURNAL OF BIOLOGICAL INORGANIC CHEMISTRY	Analysis of electron-transfer (ET) kinetics data obtained from experiments on Ru-modified proteins (azurin, cytochrome c, myoglobin) and the bacterial photosynthetic reaction center reveals that distant donor-acceptor electronic couplings depend upon the secondary structure of the intervening polypeptide matrix. The beta-sheet azurin structure efficiently and isotropically mediates coupling with an exponential distance-decay constant of 1.1 Angstrom(-1). The experimentally derived distance-decay constant of 1.4 Angstrom(-1) for long-range ET in myoglobin and the reaction center suggests that hydrogen-bond couplings are weaker through alpha helices than across beta sheets. The donor-acceptor interactions of systems with comparable tunneling energies fall into two coupling zones: the beta zone (bounded by distance-decay constants of 0.9 and 1.15 Angstrom(-1)) includes all the beta-sheet (azurin) couplings and all but one coupling in cytochrome c; the alpha zone (boundaries: 1.25 and 1.6 Angstrom(-1)) includes less strongly coupled donor-acceptor pairs in myoglobin and the reaction center as well as a relatively weakly coupled pair in cytochrome c.	1996	1	10.1007/s007750050046
KAY, D; MCDONALD, A	REDUCTION OF COLIFORM BACTERIA IN 2 UPLAND RESERVOIRS - THE SIGNIFICANCE OF DISTANCE DECAY RELATIONSHIPS	WATER RESEARCH		1980	14	10.1016/0043-1354(80)90076-7
