AU	TI	SO	AB	PY	DI
Stevens, JL; Olson, JB	Bacterial communities associated with lionfish in their native and invaded ranges	MARINE ECOLOGY PROGRESS SERIES	Lionfish, which are native to the Indo-Pacific, were introduced into the Western Atlantic Ocean, where they have become highly successful invaders. Previous work has demonstrated the presence of distinct lionfish populations within both the invaded and native ranges, but little is known about the specificity of the bacterial communities associated with lionfish surfaces. This study was designed to evaluate whether lionfish-associated bacterial communities reflected the geographical distribution patterns of their host. To this end, fin-associated bacterial communities from sites throughout the native and invaded ranges were analyzed. Lionfish were collected from 9 locations in the invaded Western Atlantic Ocean and 8 locations throughout their native Indo-Pacific. The composition of lionfish-associated bacterial communities was examined by terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism analyses following amplification of the bacterial 16S rRNA gene with universal prokaryotic primers 8F and 1392R. Lionfish-associated external bacterial communities were not significantly different between the native and invaded ranges, but differences were found between collection locations within each range. Although bacterial communities on lionfish skin demonstrated a greater similarity within collection site than between collection sites, a core group of bacteria dominated by members of the. Proteobacteria were found in lionfish-associated communities from both ranges. It is likely that lionfish maintain a core group of external bacteria throughout both the native and invaded ranges, but are differentially colonized by other bacteria from their local environments.	2015	10.3354/meps11323
Nair, AV; Joseph, N; Krishna, K; Sneha, KG; Tom, N; Jangid, K; Nair, S	A comparative study of coastal and clinical isolates of Pseudomonas aeruginosa	BRAZILIAN JOURNAL OF MICROBIOLOGY	Pseudomonas aeruginosa is a ubiquitous Gram-negative bacterium having a versatile metabolic potential and great ecological and clinical significance. The geographical distribution of P. aeruginosa has revealed the existence of an unbiased genetic arrangement in terrestrial isolates. In contrast, there are very few reports about P. aeruginosa strains from marine environments. The present work was aimed at studying the distribution of P. aeruginosa in coastal waters along the Indian Peninsula and understanding the environmental influence on genotypic, metabolic and phenotypic characteristics by comparing marine and clinical isolates. Of the 785 marine isolates obtained on selective media, only 32 (similar to 4.1%) were identified as P. aeruginosa, based on their fatty acid methyl ester profiles. A low Euclidian distance value (<2.5) obtained from chemotaxonomic analysis suggested that all the environmental (coastal and marine) isolates originated from a single species. While UPGMA analyses of AP-PCR and phenotypic profiles separated the environmental and clinical isolates, fatty acid biotyping showed overlapping between most clinical and environmental isolates. Our study revealed the genetic diversity among different environmental isolates of P. aeruginosa. While biogeographical separation was not evident based solely on phenotypic and metabolic typing, genomic and metatranscriptomic studies are more likely to show differences between these isolates. Thus, newer and more insightful methods are required to understand the ecological distribution of this complex group of bacteria.	2015	10.1590/S1517-838246320140502
Liu, L; Hart, MM; Zhang, JL; Cai, XB; Gai, JP; Christie, P; Li, XL; Klironomos, JN	Altitudinal distribution patterns of AM fungal assemblages in a Tibetan alpine grassland	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	A better understanding of biogeography of Glomeromycota is essential for the conservation of arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungal species and the ecosystem services that they provide worldwide. We examined the spatial dynamics of AM fungi along two slopes (4149 m a.s.l. to the summit at 5033 m a.s.l.) of Mount Mila on the Tibetan Plateau. Our hypothesis was that AM fungal communities at higher elevation would show distinct assemblages with lower diversity in conditions of increasing environmental harshness. A total of 52 operational taxonomic units (OTUs) spanning all four orders were detected and some OTUs were habitat specific. Nearly 30% of the OTUs were new phylotypes, including two family-like clades. Distinct communities of AM fungi were found at the higher elevation, demonstrating potential niche differentiation along the elevation gradient. Elevation patterns of taxon richness/diversity differed between the two transects, decreasing with increasing elevation on the eastern slope and being unimodal (or lacking a pattern) on the western slope. Taken together, our findings provide evidence of a significant spatial structure of AM fungi across the elevation gradient, with the distribution patterns of these fungi regulated simultaneously by the plant communities, soil properties and climatic conditions in this plateau montane ecosystem.	2015	10.1093/femsec/fiv078
Souffreau, C; Van der Gucht, K; van Gremberghe, I; Kosten, S; Lacerot, G; Lobao, LM; Huszar, VLD; Roland, F; Jeppesen, E; Vyverman, W; De Meester, L	Environmental rather than spatial factors structure bacterioplankton communities in shallow lakes along a > 6000km latitudinal gradient in South America	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Metacommunity studies on lake bacterioplankton indicate the importance of environmental factors in structuring communities. Yet most of these studies cover relatively small spatial scales. We assessed the relative importance of environmental and spatial factors in shaping bacterioplankton communities across a >6000km latitudinal range, studying 48 shallow lowland lakes in the tropical, tropicali (isothermal subzone of the tropics) and tundra climate regions of South America using denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis. Bacterioplankton community composition (BCC) differed significantly across regions. Although a large fraction of the variation in BCC remained unexplained, the results supported a consistent significant contribution of local environmental variables and to a lesser extent spatial variables, irrespective of spatial scale. Upon correction for space, mainly biotic environmental factors significantly explained the variation in BCC. The abundance of pelagic cladocerans remained particularly significant, suggesting grazer effects on bacterioplankton communities in the studied lakes. These results confirm that bacterioplankton communities are predominantly structured by environmental factors, even over a large-scale latitudinal gradient (6026km), and stress the importance of including biotic variables in studies that aim to understand patterns in BCC.	2015	10.1111/1462-2920.12692
Roeselers, G; Coolen, J; van der Wielen, PWJJ; Jaspers, MC; Atsma, A; de Graaf, B; Schuren, F	Microbial biogeography of drinking water: patterns in phylogenetic diversity across space and time	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	In this study, we collected water from different locations in 32 drinking water distribution networks in the Netherlands and analysed the spatial and temporal variation in microbial community composition by high-throughput sequencing of 16S rRNA gene amplicons. We observed that microbial community compositions of raw source and processed water were very different for each distribution network sampled. In each network, major differences in community compositions were observed between raw and processed water, although community structures of processed water did not differ substantially from end-point tap water. End-point water samples within the same distribution network revealed very similar community structures. Network-specific communities were shown to be surprisingly stable in time. Biofilm communities sampled from domestic water metres varied distinctly between households and showed no resemblance to planktonic communities within the same distribution networks. Our findings demonstrate that high-throughput sequencing provides a powerful and sensitive tool to probe microbial community composition in drinking water distribution systems. Furthermore, this approach can be used to quantitatively compare the microbial communities to match end-point water samples to specific distribution networks. Insight in the ecology of drinking water distribution systems will facilitate the development of effective control strategies that will ensure safe and high-quality drinking water.	2015	10.1111/1462-2920.12739
Wang, YM; Yang, J; Liu, LMA; Yu, Z	Quantifying the effects of geographical and environmental factors on distribution of stream bacterioplankton within nature reserves of Fujian, China	ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE AND POLLUTION RESEARCH	Bacterioplankton are important components of freshwater ecosystems and play essential roles in ecological functions and processes; however, little is known about their geographical distribution and the factors influencing their ecology, especially in stream ecosystems. To examine how geographical and environmental factors affect the composition of bacterioplankton communities, we used denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis and clone sequencing to survey bacterioplankton communities in 31 samples of streamwater from seven nature reserves in Fujian province, southeast China. Our results revealed that dominant bacterioplankton communities exhibited a distinct geographical pattern. Further, we provided evidence for distance decay relationships in bacterioplankton community similarity and found similar community gradients in response to elevation and latitude. Both redundancy analyses and Mantel tests showed that bacterioplankton community composition was significantly correlated with both environmental (electrical conductivity, total phosphorus, and PO4-P) and geographical factors (latitude, longitude, and elevation). Variance partitioning further showed that the joint effect of geographical and environmental factors explained the largest proportion of the variation in distribution of bacterioplankton communities (13.6 %), followed by purely geographical factors (11.2 %), and purely environmental factors (0.6 %). The Betaproteobacteria were the most common taxa in the streams, followed by Firmicutes and Gammaproteobacteria. Therefore, our results suggest that the biogeographical patterns of stream bacterioplankton communities across the Fujian nature reserves are more influenced by geographical factors than by local physicochemical properties.	2015	10.1007/s11356-015-4308-y
Liang, YT; Zhang, X; Zhou, JZ; Li, GH	Long-term oil contamination increases deterministic assembly processes in soil microbes	ECOLOGICAL APPLICATIONS	The mechanisms that drive microbial turnover in time and space have received considerable attention but remain unclear, especially for situations with anthropogenic perturbation. To understand the impact of long-term oil contamination on microbial spatial turnover, 100 soil samples were taken from five oil exploration fields located in different geographic regions across China. The microbial functional diversity was analyzed with a high-throughput functional gene array, GeoChip. Our results indicated that soil microbial -diversity (richness and Shannon diversity index) decreased significantly with contamination. All contaminated and uncontaminated samples exhibited significant spatial autocorrelation between microbial community similarity and spatial distance, as described by a distance-decay relationship (DDR). However, long-term oil exposure flattened the slopes of the DDRs of all of the functional genes and each functional group involved in C/N/P/S cycling, particularly of those involved in contaminant degradation. The relative importance of deterministic and stochastic processes in microbial assembly was determined. The decrease in microbial spatial turnover with long-term oil contamination was coupled with an increase in the proportion of deterministic processes that structured microbial assembly based on null model analysis. The results indicated long-term oil contamination significantly affects soil microbial community spatial structure by acting as an environmental filter to decrease the regional differences distinguishing soil microbial communities.	2015	10.1890/14-1672.1
Orr, CH; Stewart, CJ; Leifert, C; Cooper, JM; Cummings, SP	Effect of crop management and sample year on abundance of soil bacterial communities in organic and conventional cropping systems	JOURNAL OF APPLIED MICROBIOLOGY	AimsTo identify changes in the bacterial community, at the phylum level brought about by varied crop management. Methods and ResultsNext-generation sequencing methods were used to compare the taxonomic structure of the bacterial community within 24 agricultural soils managed with either organic or conventional methods, over a 3-year period. Relative abundance of the proportionately larger phyla (e.g. Acidobacteria and Actinobacteria) was primarily affected by sample year rather than crop management. Changes of abundance in these phyla were correlated with changes in pH, organic nitrogen and soil basal respiration. Crop management affected some of the less dominant phyla (Chloroflexi, Nitrospirae, Gemmatimonadetes) which also correlated with pH and organic N. ConclusionSoil diversity can vary with changing environmental variables and soil chemistry. If these factors remain constant, soil diversity can also remain constant even under changing land use. Significance and Impact of the StudyThe impact of crop management on environmental variables must be considered when interpreting bacterial diversity studies in agricultural soils. Impact of land use change should always be monitored across different sampling time points. Further studies at the functional group level are necessary to assess whether management-induced changes in bacterial community structure are of biological and agronomic relevance.	2015	10.1111/jam.12822
Liu, JW; Liu, XS; Wang, M; Qiao, YL; Zheng, YF; Zhang, XH	Bacterial and Archaeal Communities in Sediments of the North Chinese Marginal Seas	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Microbial communities of the Chinese marginal seas have rarely been reported. Here, bacterial and archaeal community structures and abundance in the surface sediment of four sea areas including the Bohai Sea (BS), North Yellow Sea (NYS), South Yellow Sea (SYS), and the north East China Sea (NECS) were surveyed by 16S ribosomal RNA (rRNA) gene pyrosequencing and quantitative PCR. The results showed that microbial communities of the four geographic areas were distinct from each other at the operational taxonomic unit (OTU) level, whereas the microbial communities of the BS, NYS, and SYS were more similar to each other than to the NECS at higher taxonomic levels. Across all samples, Bacteria were numerically dominant relative to Archaea, and among them, Gammaproteobacteria and Euryarchaeota were predominant in the BS, NYS, and SYS, while Deltaproteobacteria and Thaumarchaeota were prevalent in the NECS. The most abundant bacterial genera were putative sulfur oxidizer and sulfate reducer, suggesting that sulfur cycle processes might prevail in these areas, and the high abundance of dsrB (10(7)-10(8) copies g(-1)) in all sites verified the dominance of sulfate reducer in the north Chinese marginal seas. The differences in sediment sources among the sampling areas were potential explanations for the observed microbial community variations. Furthermore, temperature and dissolved oxygen of bottom water were significant environmental factors in determining both bacterial and archaeal communities, whereas chlorophyll a in sediment was significant only in structuring archaeal community. This study presented an outline of benthic microbial communities and provided insights into understanding the biogeochemical cycles in sediments of the north Chinese marginal seas.	2015	10.1007/s00248-014-0553-8
Shi, Y; Grogan, P; Sun, HB; Xiong, JB; Yang, YF; Zhou, JZ; Chu, HY	Multi-scale variability analysis reveals the importance of spatial distance in shaping Arctic soil microbial functional communities	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	Understanding biological diversity and distribution patterns at multiple spatial scales is a central issue in ecology. Here, we investigated the biogeographical patterns of microbial functional genes in 24 heath soils from across the Arctic using GeoChip-based metagenomics and principal coordinates of neighbour matrices (PCNM)-based analysis. Functional gene richness varied considerably among sites, while the proportions of each major functional gene category were evenly distributed. Functional gene composition varied significantly at most medium to large spatial scales, and the PCNM analyses indicated that 14 20% of the variation in total and major functional gene categories could be attributed primarily to relatively large-scale spatial effects that were consistent with broad-scale variation in soil pH and total nitrogen. The combination of variance partitioning and multi-scales analysis indicated that spatial distance effects accounted for 12% of the total variation in functional gene composition, whereas environmental factors accounted for only 3%. This small but significant influence of spatial variation in determining functional gene distributions contrasts sharply with typical microbial phylotype/species-based biogeographical patterns (including these same Arctic soil samples), which are primarily determined by contemporary environmental heterogeneities. Therefore, our results suggest that historical contingencies such as disturbance events, physical heterogeneities, community interactions or dispersal barriers that occurred in the past, have some significant influence on soil functional gene distribution patterns. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2015	10.1016/j.soilbio.2015.03.028
Regan, KM; Nunan, N; Boeddinghaus, RS; Baumgartner, V; Berner, D; Boch, S; Oelmann, Y; Overmann, J; Prati, D; Schloter, M; Schmitt, B; Sorkau, E; Steffens, M; Kandeler, E; Marhan, S	Seasonal controls on grassland microbial biogeography: are they governed by plants, abiotic properties or both? (vol 71, pg 21, 2014)	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY		2015	10.1016/j.soilbio.2015.03.026
Shi, YW; Tapa, MS; Li, C; Yang, HM; Zhang, T; Gao, Y; Sun, J; Zeng, J; Lin, Q; Cao, ZH; Outi, KE; Li, YG; Lou, K	Diversity and space-time dynamics of endophytic archaea from sugar beet in the north slope of Tianshan Mountain revealed by 454 pyrosequencing and T-RFLP	WORLD JOURNAL OF MICROBIOLOGY & BIOTECHNOLOGY	Plants harbor complex and variable microbial communities. Using molecular-based techniques targeting the 16S rRNA gene, we studied the developmental stages and geographical location diversity of endophytic archaea in two locations (Shihezi and Changji) and four periods (the seedling growth, rosette formation, tuber growth and sucrose accumulation sampling periods) in the north slope of Tianshan Mountain, China. Community structure of mixed sample from 60 sugar beet plants was examined using PCR-based 454 pyrosequencing and terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP). In total, 5290 archaea 16S rRNA sequences were obtained from all sugar beet samples. The most abundant archaea groups in all sugar beet were Methanococci, the miscellaneous Crenarchaeotic Group and Thermoplasmata. There was a marked difference in diversity of endophytic archaea in sugar beet for different growth periods. The greatest number of Operational T-RFLP Units (OTUs) was detected during sucrose accumulation (298) and rosette formation (282). Endophytic archaea diversity was reduced during seedling growth (128 OTUs) and tuber growth (55 OTUs). Nine OTUs were common to all four periods of growth. There were more OTUs in Shihezi than in Changji. Clustering analysis and principal component analysis of T-RFLP data revealed distinct shifts in endophytic archaea community profiles that corresponded to plant growth stage rather than geographical location. The dynamics of endophytic archaea communities were influenced by plant growth stage. To our knowledge, this is the first report that archaea has been identified as endophytes associated with sugar beet by the culture-independent approach. The results suggest that the diversity of endophytic archaea is abundant in sugar beet.	2015	10.1007/s11274-015-1853-y
Cockell, CS; Cousins, C; Wilkinson, PT; Olsson-Francis, K; Rozitis, B	Are thermophilic microorganisms active in cold environments?	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF ASTROBIOLOGY	The mean air temperature of the Icelandic interior is below 10 degrees C. However, we have previously observed 16S rDNA sequences associated with thermophilic lineages in Icelandic basalts. Measurements of the temperatures of igneous rocks in Iceland showed that solar insolation of these low albedo substrates achieved a peak surface temperature of 44.5 degrees C. We isolated seven thermophilic Geobacillus species from basalt with optimal growth temperatures of similar to 65 degrees C. The minimum growth temperature of these organisms was similar to 36 degrees C, suggesting that they could be active in the rock environment. Basalt dissolution rates at 40 degrees C were increased in the presence of one of the isolates compared to abiotic controls, showing its potential to be involved in active biogeochemistry at environmental temperatures. These data raise the possibility of transient active thermophilic growth in macroclimatically cold rocky environments, implying that the biogeographical distribution of active thermophiles might be greater than previously understood. These data show that temperatures measured or predicted over large scales on a planet are not in themselves adequate to assess niches available to extremophiles at micron scales.	2015	10.1017/S1473550414000433
Suh, SS; Park, M; Hwang, J; Kil, EJ; Jung, SW; Lee, S; Lee, TK	Seasonal Dynamics of Marine Microbial Community in the South Sea of Korea	PLOS ONE	High-resolution 16S rRNA tag pyrosequencing was used to obtain seasonal snapshots of the bacterial diversity and community structure at two locations in Gosung Bay (South Sea, Korea) over a one year period. Seasonal sampling from the water column at each site revealed highly diverse bacterial communities containing up to 900 estimated Operational Taxonomic Units (OTUs). The Alphaproteobacteria and Gammaproteobacteria were the most abundant groups, and the most frequently recorded OTUs were members of Pelagibacter and Glaciecola. In particular, it was observed that Arcobacter, a genus of the Epsilonproteobacteria, dominated during summer. In addition, Psedoalteromonadaceae, Vibrionaceae and SAR11-1 were predominant members of the OTUs found in all sampling seasons. Environmental factors significantly influenced the bacterial community structure among season, with the phosphate and nitrate concentrations contributing strongly to the spatial distribution of the Alphaproteobacteria; the Gammaproteobacteria, Flavobacteria, and Actinobacteria all showed marked negative correlations with all measured nutrients, particularly silicon dioxide and chlorophyll-a. The results suggest that seasonal changes in environmental variables contribute to the dynamic structure of the bacterial community in the study area.	2015	10.1371/journal.pone.0131633
Chown, SL; Clarke, A; Fraser, CI; Cary, SC; Moon, KL; McGeoch, MA	The changing form of Antarctic biodiversity	NATURE	Antarctic biodiversity is much more extensive, ecologically diverse and biogeographically structured than previously thought. Understanding of how this diversity is distributed in marine and terrestrial systems, the mechanisms underlying its spatial variation, and the significance of the microbiota is growing rapidly. Broadly recognizable drivers of diversity variation include energy availability and historical refugia. The impacts of local human activities and global environmental change nonetheless pose challenges to the current and future understanding of Antarctic biodiversity. Life in the Antarctic and the Southern Ocean is surprisingly rich, and as much at risk from environmental change as it is elsewhere.	2015	10.1038/nature14505
Morlon, H; OConnor, TK; Bryant, JA; Charkoudian, LK; Docherty, KM; Jones, E; Kembel, SW; Green, JL; Bohannan, BJM	The Biogeography of Putative Microbial Antibiotic Production	PLOS ONE	Understanding patterns in the distribution and abundance of functional traits across a landscape is of fundamental importance to ecology. Mapping these distributions is particularly challenging for species-rich groups with sparse trait measurement coverage, such as flowering plants, insects, and microorganisms. Here, we use likelihood-based character reconstruction to infer and analyze the spatial distribution of unmeasured traits. We apply this framework to a microbial dataset comprised of 11,732 ketosynthase alpha gene sequences extracted from 144 soil samples from three continents to document the spatial distribution of putative microbial polyketide antibiotic production. Antibiotic production is a key competitive strategy for soil microbial survival and performance. Additionally, novel antibiotic discovery is highly relevant to human health, making natural antibiotic production by soil microorganisms a major target for bioprospecting. Our comparison of trait-based biogeographical patterns to patterns based on taxonomy and phylogeny is relevant to our basic understanding of microbial biogeography as well as the pressing need for new antibiotics.	2015	10.1371/journal.pone.0130659
Okie, JG; Van Horn, DJ; Storch, D; Barrett, JE; Gooseff, MN; Kopsova, L; Takacs-Vesbach, CD	Niche and metabolic principles explain patterns of diversity and distribution: theory and a case study with soil bacterial communities	PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY B-BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES	The causes of biodiversity patterns are controversial and elusive due to complex environmental variation, covarying changes in communities, and lack of baseline and null theories to differentiate straightforward causes from more complex mechanisms. To address these limitations, we developed general diversity theory integrating metabolic principles with niche-based community assembly. We evaluated this theory by investigating patterns in the diversity and distribution of soil bacteria taxa across four orders of magnitude variation in spatial scale on an Antarctic mountainside in low complexity, highly oligotrophic soils. Our theory predicts that lower temperatures should reduce taxon niche widths along environmental gradients due to decreasing growth rates, and the changing niche widths should lead to contrasting alpha- and beta-diversity patterns. In accord with the predictions, alpha-diversity, niche widths and occupancies decreased while beta-diversity increased with increasing elevation and decreasing temperature. The theory also successfully predicts a hump-shaped relationship between alpha-diversity and pH and a negative relationship between alpha-diversity and salinity. Thus, a few simple principles explained systematic microbial diversity variation along multiple gradients. Such general theory can be used to disentangle baseline effects from more complex effects of temperature and other variables on biodiversity patterns in a variety of ecosystems and organisms.	2015	10.1098/rspb.2014.2630
Bresciano, JC; Salvador, CA; Paz-y-Mino, C; Parody-Merino, AM; Bosch, J; Woodhams, DC	Variation in the Presence of Anti-Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis Bacteria of Amphibians Across Life Stages and Elevations in Ecuador	ECOHEALTH	Amphibian populations are decreasing worldwide due to a variety of factors. In South America, the chytrid fungus Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis (Bd) is linked to many population declines. The pathogenic effect of Bd on amphibians can be inhibited by specific bacteria present on host skin. This symbiotic association allows some amphibians to resist the development of the disease chytridiomycosis. Here, we aimed (1) to determine for the first time if specific anti-Bd bacteria are present on amphibians in the Andes of Ecuador, (2) to monitor anti-Bd bacteria across developmental stages in a focal amphibian, the Andean marsupial tree frog, Gastrotheca riobambae, that deposits larvae in aquatic habitats, and (3) to compare the Bd presence associated with host assemblages including 10 species at sites ranging in biogeography from Amazonian rainforest (450 masl) to Andes montane rainforest (3200 masl). We sampled and identified skin-associated bacteria of frogs in the field using swabs and a novel methodology of aerobic counting plates, and a combination of morphological, biochemical, and molecular identification techniques. The following anti-Bd bacteria were identified and found to be shared among several hosts at high-elevation sites where Bd was present at a prevalence of 32.5%: Janthinobacterium lividum, Pseudomonas fluorescens, and Serratia sp. Bd were detected in Gastrotheca spp. and not detected in the lowlands (sites below 1000 masl). In G. riobambae, recognized Bd-resistant bacteria start to be present at the metamorphic stage. Overall bacterial abundance was significantly higher post-metamorphosis and on species sampled at lower elevations. Further metagenomic studies are needed to evaluate the roles of host identity, life-history stage, and biogeography of the microbiota and their function in disease resistance.	2015	10.1007/s10393-015-1010-y
Tsiknia, M; Paranychianakis, NV; Varouchakis, EA; Nikolaidis, NP	Environmental drivers of the distribution of nitrogen functional genes at a watershed scale	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	To date only few studies have dealt with the biogeography of microbial communities at large spatial scales, despite the importance of such information to understand and simulate ecosystem functioning. Herein, we describe the biogeographic patterns of microorganisms involved in nitrogen (N)-cycling (diazotrophs, ammonia oxidizers, denitrifiers) as well as the environmental factors shaping these patterns across the Koiliaris Critical Zone Observatory, a typical Mediterranean watershed. Our findings revealed that a proportion of variance ranging from 40 to 80% of functional genes abundance could be explained by the environmental variables monitored, with pH, soil texture, total organic carbon and potential nitrification rate being identified as the most important drivers. The spatial autocorrelation of N-functional genes ranged from 0.2 to 6.2 km and prediction maps, generated by cokriging, revealed distinct patterns of functional genes. The inclusion of functional genes in statistical modeling substantially improved the proportion of variance explained by the models, a result possibly due to the strong relationships that were identified among microbial groups. Significant relationships were set between functional groups, which were further mediated by land use (natural versus agricultural lands). These relationships, in combination with the environmental variables, allow us to provide insights regarding the ecological preferences of N-functional groups and among them the recently identified clade II of nitrous oxide reducers.	2015	10.1093/femsec/fiv052
Segarra, KEA; Schubotz, F; Samarkin, V; Yoshinaga, MY; Hinrichs, KU; Joye, SB	High rates of anaerobic methane oxidation in freshwater wetlands reduce potential atmospheric methane emissions	NATURE COMMUNICATIONS	The role of anaerobic oxidation of methane (AOM) in wetlands, the largest natural source of atmospheric methane, is poorly constrained. Here we report rates of microbially mediated AOM (average rate = 20 nmol cm(-3) per day) in three freshwater wetlands that span multiple biogeographical provinces. The observed AOM rates rival those in marine environments. Most AOM activity may have been coupled to sulphate reduction, but other electron acceptors remain feasible. Lipid biomarkers typically associated with anaerobic methane-oxidizing archaea were more enriched in C-13 than those characteristic of marine systems, potentially due to distinct microbial metabolic pathways or dilution with heterotrophic isotope signals. On the basis of this extensive data set, AOM in freshwater wetlands may consume 200 Tg methane per year, reducing their potential methane emissions by over 50%. These findings challenge precepts surrounding wetland carbon cycling and demonstrate the environmental relevance of an anaerobic methane sink in ecosystems traditionally considered strong methane sources.	2015	10.1038/ncomms8477
Constancias, F; Terrat, S; Saby, NPA; Horrigue, W; Villerd, J; Guillemin, JP; Biju-Duval, L; Nowak, V; Dequiedt, S; Ranjard, L; Prevost-Boure, NC	Mapping and determinism of soil microbial community distribution across an agricultural landscape	MICROBIOLOGYOPEN	Despite the relevance of landscape, regarding the spatial patterning of microbial communities and the relative influence of environmental parameters versus human activities, few investigations have been conducted at this scale. Here, we used a systematic grid to characterize the distribution of soil microbial communities at 278 sites across a monitored agricultural landscape of 13km(2). Molecular microbial biomass was estimated by soil DNA recovery and bacterial diversity by 16S rRNA gene pyrosequencing. Geostatistics provided the first maps of microbial community at this scale and revealed a heterogeneous but spatially structured distribution of microbial biomass and diversity with patches of several hundreds of meters. Variance partitioning revealed that both microbial abundance and bacterial diversity distribution were highly dependent of soil properties and land use (total variance explained ranged between 55% and 78%). Microbial biomass and bacterial richness distributions were mainly explained by soil pH and texture whereas bacterial evenness distribution was mainly related to land management. Bacterial diversity (richness, evenness, and Shannon index) was positively influenced by cropping intensity and especially by soil tillage, resulting in spots of low microbial diversity in soils under forest management. Spatial descriptors also explained a small but significant portion of the microbial distribution suggesting that landscape configuration also shapes microbial biomass and bacterial diversity.	2015	10.1002/mbo3.255
Constancias, F; Saby, NPA; Terrat, S; Dequiedt, S; Horrigue, W; Nowak, V; Guillemin, JP; Biju-Duval, L; Prevost-Boure, N; Ranjard, L	Contrasting spatial patterns and ecological attributes of soil bacterial and archaeal taxa across a landscape	MICROBIOLOGYOPEN	Even though recent studies have clarified the influence and hierarchy of environmental filters on bacterial community structure, those constraining bacterial populations variations remain unclear. In consequence, our ability to understand to ecological attributes of soil bacteria and to predict microbial community response to environmental stress is therefore limited. Here, we characterized the bacterial community composition and the various bacterial taxonomic groups constituting the community across an agricultural landscape of 12km(2), by using a 215x215m systematic grid representing 278 sites to precisely decipher their spatial distribution and drivers at this scale. The bacterial and Archaeal community composition was characterized by applying 16S rRNA gene pyrosequencing directly to soil DNA from samples. Geostatistics tools were used to reveal the heterogeneous distribution of bacterial composition at this scale. Soil physical parameters and land management explained a significant amount of variation, suggesting that environmental selection is the major process shaping bacterial composition. All taxa systematically displayed also a heterogeneous and particular distribution patterns. Different relative influences of soil characteristics, land use and space were observed, depending on the taxa, implying that selection and spatial processes might be differentially but not exclusively involved for each bacterial phylum. Soil pH was a major factor determining the distribution of most of the bacterial taxa and especially the most important factor explaining the spatial patterns of -Proteobacteria and Planctomycetes. Soil texture, organic carbon content and quality were more specific to a few number of taxa (e.g., -Proteobacteria and Chlorobi). Land management also influenced the distribution of bacterial taxa across the landscape and revealed different type of response to cropping intensity (positive, negative, neutral or hump-backed relationships) according to phyla. Altogether, this study provided valuable clues about the ecological behavior of soil bacterial and archaeal taxa at an agricultural landscape scale and could be useful for developing sustainable strategies of land management.	2015	10.1002/mbo3.256
Overmann, J	Significance and future role of microbial resource centers	SYSTEMATIC AND APPLIED MICROBIOLOGY	Isolated strains constitute the basis for microbial systematics as well as for numerous applications in biotechnology, pharmacology, agronomy and public health. Microbial resource centers (mBRCs) are institutions capable of safeguarding, maintaining and distributing authenticated microbial strains, their genomic DNA and the associated data in a quality-controlled manner. They allow the deposit and distribution of type strains that form the basis of microbial taxonomy. Beyond taxonomy, deposited strains enable follow-up scientific studies and lead to a significantly improved recognition of scientific work. Considerable added value is generated through the labor-intensive steps of enrichment, enrichment screening, isolation, characterization, conservation and long-term storage of microbial strains. Here, a microbial strain is calculated to attain a value of 9836 Euro through its isolation and another 918 Euro through its deposit, adding up to a total value of 10,754 Euro. mBRCs provide a highly cost-effective way of preserving this value of microbial strains. A considerable future challenge of mBRCs will be to secure a larger fraction of strains that are isolated in research labs worldwide. mBRCs provide the expert knowledge and the cultivation and preservation skills crucial to access the large fraction of uncharted microbial diversity. mBRCs also provide the expertise and support the depositors of microbial resources to meet new legal challenges after implementation of the Nagoya Protocol. A suitable roadmap is described that allows mBRCs to meet the new demands emerging in science, technology and economy through an integration of novel technology, expansion of their duties and establishing an improved global mBRC network. (C) 2015 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.	2015	10.1016/j.syapm.2015.02.008
Sole, R	Bioengineering the biosphere?	ECOLOGICAL COMPLEXITY	Our planet is experiencing an accelerated process of change associated to a variety of anthropogenic phenomena. The future of this transformation is uncertain, but there is general agreement about its negative unfolding that might threaten our own survival. Furthermore, the pace of the expected changes is likely to be abrupt: catastrophic shifts might be the most likely outcome of this ongoing, apparently slow process. Although different strategies for geo-engineering the planet have been advanced, none seem likely to safely revert the large-scale problems associated to carbon dioxide accumulation or ecosystem degradation. An alternative possibility considered here is inspired in the rapidly growing potential for engineering living systems. It would involve designing synthetic organisms capable of reproducing and expanding to large geographic scales with the goal of achieving a long-term or a transient restoration of ecosystem-level homeostasis. Such a regional or even planetary-scale engineering would have to deal with the complexity of our biosphere. It will require not only a proper design of organisms but also understanding their place within ecological networks and their evolvability. This is a likely future scenario that will require integration of ideas coming from currently weakly connected domains, including synthetic biology, ecological and genome engineering, evolutionary theory, climate science, biogeography and invasion ecology, among others. (C) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2015	10.1016/j.ecocom.2015.01.005
Yang, AJ; Zhang, XL; Agogue, H; Dupuy, C; Gong, J	Contrasting spatiotemporal patterns and environmental drivers of diversity and community structure of ammonia oxidizers, denitrifiers, and anammox bacteria in sediments of estuarine tidal flats	ANNALS OF MICROBIOLOGY	The spatial and temporal patterns of diversity, community structure, and their drivers are fundamental issues in microbial ecology. This study aimed to investigate the relative importance of spatial and seasonal controls on the distribution of nitrogen cycling microbes in sediments of estuarine tidal flats, and to test the hypothesis that metals impact the distribution of nitrogen-cycling microbes in the coastal system. Two layers of sediment samples were collected from three estuarine tidal flats of Laizhou Bay in 2010 winter and 2011 summer. The alpha diversities (Shannon and Simpson indices) and community structure of ammonia oxidizing bacteria (AOB) and archaea (AOA), denitrifier and anammox bacteria (AMB) were revealed using denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis and clone library analysis of amoA, nosZ and 16S rRNA gene markers. We found that both AOB and AMB exhibited distinct seasonal patterns in either alpha diversity or community turnover; AOA had different alpha diversities in two layers, but neither spatial nor seasonal patterns were found for their community turnover. However, no distinct spatiotemporal pattern was observed for either diversity or community composition of nosZ-type denitrifiers. For correlations between alpha diversities and environmental factors, significant correlations were found between AOB and ammonium, temperature and As, between denitrifiers and nitrite, salinity and Pb, and between AMB and Pb, ratio of organic carbon to nitrogen, ammonium, pH and dissolved oxygen. Salinity and sediment grain size were the most important factors shaping AOB and AOA communities, respectively; whereas AMB community structure was mostly determined by temperature, dissolved oxygen, pH and heavy metals As and Cd. These results stress that ammonia oxidizers, denitrifiers and anammox bacteria have generally different distributional patterns across time and space, and heavy metals might have contributed to their differentiated distributions in coastal sediments.	2015	10.1007/s13213-014-0929-5
Bier, RL; Voss, KA; Bernhardt, ES	Bacterial community responses to a gradient of alkaline mountaintop mine drainage in Central Appalachian streams	ISME JOURNAL	Microbial community composition and diversity change along chemical gradients, leading to the expectation that microbial community information might provide new gradient characterizations. Here we examine stream bacteria composition and diversity along a strong chemical gradient in Central Appalachian streams. Coal mining in the region generates alkaline mine drainage (AlkMD), causing dramatic increases in conductivity, alkalinity, sulfate and metals sufficient to degrade stream macrobiota communities throughout the ecoregion. In this study, we examined the relationship between water and biofilm chemistry and biofilm bacteria taxonomic composition in streams where active and reclaimed surface coal mines occupied 0-96% of watershed surface area. We incubated wood veneers in each stream site for 4 months to develop biofilms on similar substrates. We sampled water chemistry at the time of deployment and collection, and after 1 month. Following incubation, we collected biofilms for microbial and chemical characterization. Microbial composition was determined by pyrosequencing 16S rRNA amplicons. Biofilm subsamples were analyzed by inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry to determine metal concentrations. Our results show that microbial community composition differed significantly between AlkMD-exposed and AlkMD-unexposed sites, and that compositional dissimilarity increased with AlkMD loading. Diversity was not correlated with pH or extent of upstream mining, but instead correlated with biofilm concentrations of Cd, Mn, Zn and Ni. Within mined sites, the extent of upstream mining was negatively correlated with taxonomic richness. Despite major compositional shifts, functional capacity predicted with PICRUSt (Phylogenetic Investigation of Communities by Reconstruction of Unobserved States) correlated with mining in only 3 of 43 level-2 KEGG (Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes) Orthology groups.	2015	10.1038/ismej.2014.222
Remold, SK; Purdy-Gibson, ME; France, MT; Hundley, TC	Pseudomonas putida and Pseudomonas fluorescens Species Group Recovery from Human Homes Varies Seasonally and by Environment	PLOS ONE	By shedding light on variation in time as well as in space, long-term biogeographic studies can help us define organisms distribution patterns and understand their underlying drivers. Here we examine distributions of Pseudomonas in and around 15 human homes, focusing on the P. putida and P. fluorescens species groups. We describe recovery from 10,941 samples collected during up to 8 visits per home, occurring on average 2.6 times per year. We collected a mean of 141 samples per visit, from sites in most rooms of the house, from the surrounding yards, and from human and pet occupants. We recovered Pseudomonas in 9.7% of samples, with the majority of isolates being from the P. putida and P. fluorescens species groups (approximately 62% and 23% of Pseudomonas samples recovered respectively). Although representatives of both groups were recovered from every season, every house, and every type of environment sampled, recovery was highly variable across houses and samplings. Whereas recovery of P. putida group was higher in summer and fall than in winter and spring, P. fluorescens group isolates were most often recovered in spring. P. putida group recovery from soils was substantially higher than its recovery from all other environment types, while higher P. fluorescens group recovery from soils than from other sites was much less pronounced. Both species groups were recovered from skin and upper respiratory tract samples from healthy humans and pets, although this occurred infrequently. This study indicates that even species that are able to survive under a broad range of conditions can be rare and variable in their distributions in space and in time. For such groups, determining patterns and causes of stochastic and seasonal variability may be more important for understanding the processes driving their biogeography than the identity of the types of environments in which they can be found.	2015	10.1371/journal.pone.0127704
Archer, SDJ; McDonald, IR; Herbold, CW; Lee, CK; Cary, CS	Benthic microbial communities of coastal terrestrial and ice shelf Antarctic meltwater ponds	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	The numerous perennial meltwater ponds distributed throughout Antarctica represent diverse and productive ecosystems central to the ecological functioning of the surrounding ultra oligotrophic environment. The dominant taxa in the pond benthic communities have been well described however, little is known regarding their regional dispersal and local drivers to community structure. The benthic microbial communities of 12 meltwater ponds in the McMurdo Sound of Antarctica were investigated to examine variation between pond microbial communities and their biogeography. Geochemically comparable but geomorphologically distinct ponds were selected from Bratina Island (ice shelf) and Miers Valley (terrestrial) (<40 km between study sites), and community structure within ponds was compared using DNA fingerprinting and pyrosequencing of 16S rRNA gene amplicons. More than 85% of total sequence reads were shared between pooled benthic communities at different locations (OTU0.05), which in combination with favorable prevailing winds suggests aeolian regional distribution. Consistent with previous findings Proteobacteria and Bacteroidetes were the dominant phyla representing over 50% of total sequences; however, a large number of other phyla (21) were also detected in this ecosystem. Although dominant Bacteria were ubiquitous between ponds, site and local selection resulted in heterogeneous community structures and with more than 45% of diversity being pond specific. Potassium was identified as the most significant contributing factor to the cosmopolitan community structure and aluminum to the location unique community based on a BEST analysis (Spearmans correlation coefficient of 0.632 and 0.806, respectively). These results indicate that the microbial communities in meltwater ponds are easily dispersed regionally and that the local geochemical environment drives the ponds community structure.	2015	10.3389/fmicb.2015.00485
Gupta, P; Agrawal, HK; Bandopadhyay, R	Distribution pattern of bacteria in the two geographic poles and Southern Ocean from the reported 16S rDNA sequences	CURRENT SCIENCE	16S rDNA bacterial sequences (913) from the Arctic Ocean, Southern Ocean and Antarctic Iceland were studied to understand the bacterial distribution pattern. Through phylogenetic study, it was observed that some bacteria were common in both the Arctic Ocean and Antarctic Iceland. gamma-Proteobacteria occupied 77.7% of the total bacterial population in the Antarctic Iceland, whereas in the Southern Ocean it was 72.5% and in the Arctic Ocean it was 50.9%. GC (Guanine + Cytosine) content of the bacteria in the Arctic Ocean and Antarctic Iceland region was 54.4% and 53.8% respectively. Bacterial diversity was calculated using Shannon-Weiner index and was found to be highest in the Antarctic Iceland (1.6926).	2015	
Brum, JR; Ignacio-Espinoza, JC; Roux, S; Doulcier, G; Acinas, SG; Alberti, A; Chaffron, S; Cruaud, C; de Vargas, C; Gasol, JM; Gorsky, G; Gregory, AC; Guidi, L; Hingamp, P; Iudicone, D; Not, F; Ogata, H; Pesant, S; Poulos, BT; Schwenck, SM; Speich, S; Dimier, C; Kandels-Lewis, S; Picheral, M; Searson, S; Bork, P; Bowler, C; Sunagawa, S; Wincker, P; Karsenti, E; Sullivan, MB	Patterns and ecological drivers of ocean viral communities	SCIENCE	Viruses influence ecosystems by modulating microbial population size, diversity, metabolic outputs, and gene flow. Here, we use quantitative double-stranded DNA (dsDNA) viral-fraction metagenomes (viromes) and whole viral community morphological data sets from 43 Tara Oceans expedition samples to assess viral community patterns and structure in the upper ocean. Protein cluster cataloging defined pelagic upper-ocean viral community pan and core gene sets and suggested that this sequence space is well-sampled. Analyses of viral protein clusters, populations, and morphology revealed biogeographic patterns whereby viral communities were passively transported on oceanic currents and locally structured by environmental conditions that affect host community structure. Together, these investigations establish a global ocean dsDNA viromic data set with analyses supporting the seed-bank hypothesis to explain how oceanic viral communities maintain high local diversity.	2015	10.1126/science.1261498
Villar, E; Farrant, GK; Follows, M; Garczarek, L; Speich, S; Audic, S; Bittner, L; Blanke, B; Brum, JR; Brunet, C; Casotti, R; Chase, A; Dolan, JR; dOrtenzio, F; Gattuso, JP; Grima, N; Guidi, L; Hill, CN; Jahn, O; Jamet, JL; Le Goff, H; Lepoivre, C; Malviya, S; Pelletier, E; Romagnan, JB; Roux, S; Santini, S; Scalco, E; Schwenck, SM; Tanaka, A; Testor, P; Vannier, T; Vincent, F; Zingone, A; Dimier, C; Picheral, M; Searson, S; Kandels-Lewis, S; Acinas, SG; Bork, P; Boss, E; de Vargas, C; Gorsky, G; Ogata, H; Pesant, S; Sullivan, MB; Sunagawa, S; Wincker, P; Karsenti, E; Bowler, C; Not, F; Hingamp, P; Iudicone, D	Environmental characteristics of Agulhas rings affect interocean plankton transport	SCIENCE	Agulhas rings provide the principal route for ocean waters to circulate from the Indo-Pacific to the Atlantic basin. Their influence on global ocean circulation is well known, but their role in plankton transport is largely unexplored. We show that, although the coarse taxonomic structure of plankton communities is continuous across the Agulhas choke point, South Atlantic plankton diversity is altered compared with Indian Ocean source populations. Modeling and in situ sampling of a young Agulhas ring indicate that strong vertical mixing drives complex nitrogen cycling, shaping community metabolism and biogeochemical signatures as the ring and associated plankton transit westward. The peculiar local environment inside Agulhas rings may provide a selective mechanism contributing to the limited dispersal of Indian Ocean plankton populations into the Atlantic.	2015	10.1126/science.1261447
Kohler, TJ; Kopalova, K; Van De Vijver, B; Kociolek, JP	The genus Luticola DGMann (Bacillariophyta) from the McMurdo Sound Region, Antarctica, with the description of four new species	PHYTOTAXA	A revision of the freshwater diatom genus Luticola from the McMurdo Sound Region, including the McMurdo Dry Valleys and Cape Royds, Antarctica, was made to contribute to a consistent flora for the entire Antarctic Region. Detailed light and scanning electron microscopic observations, review of pertinent literature, and examination of historical and type material lead to the identification of 12 Luticola species. Four new species and one new combination are proposed, including L. bradyi sp. nov., L. spainiae, sp. nov., L. macknightiae, sp. nov., L. transantarctica, sp. nov., and L. elegans, comb. nov. stat. nov. Several of these taxa were previously identified as part of the L. muticopsis (Van Heurck) D.G.Mann complex; Navicula muticopsis f. evoluta W. & G.S. West, L. muticopsis f. reducta (W. & G.S. West) Spaulding, and N. muticopsis f. capitata Carlson, or mistaken for the similar L. mutica (Kutzing) D.G. Mann and L. cohnii (Hilse) D.G. Mann. Morphological features of all new species were compared to the closest morphologically similar taxa, and their ecology and biogeography are discussed. All Luticola species considered here show restricted Antarctic distributions, and 8 of the 12 reported species are known only from the Antarctic continent.	2015	10.11646/phytotaxa.208.2.1
Chang, FY; Ternei, MA; Calle, PY; Brady, SF	Targeted Metagenomics: Finding Rare Tryptophan Dimer Natural Products in the Environment	JOURNAL OF THE AMERICAN CHEMICAL SOCIETY	Natural product discovery from environmental genomes (metagenornics) has largely been limited to the screening, of existing,environmental DNA (eDNA) libraries: Here, we have coupled a chemical-biogeographic survey of chroinopyrrolic acid synthase (CPAS) gene diversity with targeted eDNA. library production to more efficiently access,rare tryptophan dinner (TD) biosynthetic gene clusters. A combination of :traditional and,synthetic biology-bed heterologous expression efforts using,eDNA derived gene clusters led to the production of hydroxysporine (1)and reductasporine (2), two bioactive TDs. As suggested by but phylogeneic analysis of CPAS genes, identified in our survey of dude eDNA. extracts, reductasporine (2) contains an unprecedented TD core structure: a pyrrolinium indolocarbazole core that is likely key to its unusual bioactivity profile. This work demonstrates the potential for the discovery Of structurally rare and biologically interesting,natural products using targeted metagenomics, Where environmental samples are prescreened to identify the most phylogenetically unique gene sequences and molecules associated with these genes are accessed through targeted metagenomic library construction and heterologous expression.	2015	10.1021/jacs.5b01968
Johnson, SB; Waren, A; Tunnicliffe, V; Van Dover, C; Wheat, CG; Schultz, TF; Vrijenhoek, RC	Molecular taxonomy and naming of five cryptic species of Alviniconcha snails (Gastropoda: Abyssochrysoidea) from hydrothermal vents	SYSTEMATICS AND BIODIVERSITY	Large symbiont-hosting snails of the genus Alviniconcha (Gastropoda: Abyssochrysidae) are among the dominant inhabitants of hydrothermal vents in the Western Pacific and Indian oceans. The genus was originally described as monotypic, but unique DNA sequences for mitochondrial genes revealed six distinct evolutionary lineages that we could not distinguish based on external morphology. Subsumed under the name Alviniconcha hessleri Okutani & Ohta, the distinct allopatric and sympatric lineages have been assigned placeholder epithets that complicate scientific communications. Based on the present multi-gene sequence data, we hereby describe five Alviniconcha species (in the order of their discovery) - A. kojimai sp. nov., A. boucheti sp. nov., A. marisindica sp. nov., A. strummeri sp. nov. and A. adamantis sp. nov. Thus, we restrict application of the name A. hessleri to specimens that are genetically similar (>= 95% for COI) to those found at localities in the Mariana Trough. Single distinct Alviniconcha species inhabit vent fields along the Central Indian Ridge, the Mariana volcanic arc, and the Mariana back-arc basin, whereas vents in the Manus, Fiji and Lau back-arc basins may host two or three additional species. Formal recognition of these species facilitates future attempts to assess their physiological differences and symbiont associations. Furthermore, their reported distributions have significant biogeographic implications, affecting estimates of the diversity within and overlap among Indo-Pacific vent localities. [GRAPHICS]	2015	10.1080/14772000.2014.970673
Ben Hania, W; Fadhlaoui, K; Brochier-Armanet, C; Persillon, C; Postec, A; Hamdi, M; Dolla, A; Ollivier, B; Fardeau, ML; Le Mer, J; Erauso, G	Draft genome sequence of Mesotoga strain PhosAC3, a mesophilic member of the bacterial order Thermotogales, isolated from a digestor treating phosphogypsum in Tunisia	STANDARDS IN GENOMIC SCIENCES	Mesotoga strain PhosAc3 was the first mesophilic cultivated member of the order Thermotogales. This genus currently contain two described species, M. prima and M. infera. Strain PhosAc3, isolated from a Tunisian digestor treating phosphogypsum, is phylogenetically closely related to M. prima strain MesG1.Ag.4.2(T). Strain PhosAc3 has a genome of 3.1 Mb with a G + C content of 45.2%. It contains 3,051 protein-coding genes of which 74.6% have their best reciprocal BLAST hit in the genome of the type species, strain MesG1.Ag.4.2(T). For this reason we propose to assign strain PhosAc3 as a novel ecotype of the Mesotoga prima species. However, in contrast with the M. prima type strain, (i) it does not ferment sugars but uses them only in the presence of elemental sulfur as terminal electron acceptor, (ii) it produces only acetate and CO2 from sugars, whereas strain MesG1.Ag.4.2(T) produces acetate, butyrate, isobutyrate, isovalerate, 2-methyl-butyrate and (iii) sulfides are also end products of the elemental sulfur reduction in theses growth conditions.	2015	10.1186/1944-3277-10-12
Natalicchio, M; Peckmann, J; Birgel, D; Kiel, S	Seep deposits from northern Istria, Croatia: a first glimpse into the Eocene seep fauna of the Tethys region	GEOLOGICAL MAGAZINE	Three isolated limestone deposits and their fauna are described from a middle Eocene Flysch succession in northwestern Istria, Croatia. The limestones are identified as ancient methane-seep deposits based on fabrics and characteristic mineral phases, delta C-13(carbonate) values as low as -42.2% and C-13-depleted lipid biomarkers indicative of methane-oxidizing archaea. The faint bedding of the largest seep deposit, the great dominance of authigenic micrite over early diagenetic fibrous cement, as well as biomarker patterns indicate that seepage was diffusive rather than advective. Apart from methanotrophic archaea, aerobic methanotrophic bacteria were present at the Eocene seeps as revealed by C-13-depleted lanostanes and hopanoids. The observed corrosion surfaces in the limestones probably reflect carbonate dissolution caused by aerobic methanotrophy. The macrofauna consists mainly of chemosymbiotic bivalves such as solemyids (Acharax), thyasirids (Thyasira) and lucinids (Amanocina). The middle Eocene marks the rise of the modern seep fauna, but so far the fossil record of seeps of this age is restricted to the North Pacific region. The taxa found at Buje originated during the Cretaceous Period, whereas taxa typical of the modern seep fauna such as bathymodiolin mussels and vesicomyid clams are absent. Although this is only a first palaeontological glimpse into the biogeography during the rise of the modern seep fauna, it agrees with biogeographic investigations based on the modern vent fauna indicating that the dominant taxa of the modern seep fauna first appeared in the Pacific Ocean.	2015	10.1017/S0016756814000466
Stegen, JC; Lin, XJ; Fredrickson, JK; Konopka, AE	Estimating and mapping ecological processes influencing microbial community assembly	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Ecological community assembly is governed by a combination of (i) selection resulting from among-taxa differences in performance; (ii) dispersal resulting from organismal movement; and (iii) ecological drift resulting from stochastic changes in population sizes. The relative importance and nature of these processes can vary across environments. Selection can be homogeneous or variable, and while dispersal is a rate, we conceptualize extreme dispersal rates as two categories; dispersal limitation results from limited exchange of organisms among communities, and homogenizing dispersal results from high levels of organism exchange. To estimate the influence and spatial variation of each process we extend a recently developed statistical framework, use a simulation model to evaluate the accuracy of the extended framework, and use the framework to examine subsurface microbial communities over two geologic formations. For each subsurface community we estimate the degree to which it is influenced by homogeneous selection, variable selection, dispersal limitation, and homogenizing dispersal. Our analyses revealed that the relative influences of these ecological processes vary substantially across communities even within a geologic formation. We further identify environmental and spatial features associated with each ecological process, which allowed mapping of spatial variation in ecological-process-influences. The resulting maps provide a new lens through which ecological systems can be understood; in the subsurface system investigated here they revealed that the influence of variable selection was associated with the rate at which redox conditions change with subsurface depth.	2015	10.3389/fmicb.2015.00370
Pautasso, M; Schlegel, M; Holdenrieder, O	Forest Health in a Changing World	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Forest pathology, the science of forest health and tree diseases, is operating in a rapidly developing environment. Most importantly, global trade and climate change are increasing the threat to forest ecosystems posed by new diseases. Various studies relevant to forest pathology in a changing world are accumulating, thus making it necessary to provide an update of recent literature. In this contribution, we summarize research at the interface between forest pathology and landscape ecology, biogeography, global change science and research on tree endophytes. Regional outbreaks of tree diseases are requiring interdisciplinary collaboration, e.g. between forest pathologists and landscape ecologists. When tree pathogens are widely distributed, the factors determining their broad-scale distribution can be studied using a biogeographic approach. Global change, the combination of climate and land use change, increased pollution, trade and urbanization, as well as invasive species, will influence the effects of forest disturbances such as wildfires, droughts, storms, diseases and insect outbreaks, thus affecting the health and resilience of forest ecosystems worldwide. Tree endophytes can contribute to biological control of infectious diseases, enhance tolerance to environmental stress or behave as opportunistic weak pathogens potentially competing with more harmful ones. New molecular techniques are available for studying the complete tree endobiome under the influence of global change stressors from the landscape to the intercontinental level. Given that exotic tree diseases have both ecologic and economic consequences, we call for increased interdisciplinary collaboration in the coming decades between forest pathologists and researchers studying endophytes with tree geneticists, evolutionary and landscape ecologists, biogeographers, conservation biologists and global change scientists and outline interdisciplinary research gaps.	2015	10.1007/s00248-014-0545-8
Terrat, S; Dequiedt, S; Horrigue, W; Lelievre, M; Cruaud, C; Saby, NPA; Jolivet, C; Arrouays, D; Maron, PA; Ranjard, L; Prevost-Boure, NC	Improving soil bacterial taxa-area relationships assessment using DNA meta-barcoding	HEREDITY	The evaluation of the taxa-area relationship (TAR) with molecular fingerprinting data demonstrated the spatial structuration of soil microorganisms and provided insights into the processes shaping their diversity. The increasing use of massive sequencing technologies in biodiversity investigations has now raised the question of the advantages of such technologies over the fingerprinting approach for elucidation of the determinism of soil microbial community assembly in broad-scale biogeographic studies. Our objectives in this study were to compare DNA fingerprinting and meta-barcoding approaches for evaluating soil bacterial TAR and the determinism of soil bacterial community assembly on a broad scale. This comparison was performed on 392 soil samples from four French geographic regions with different levels of environmental heterogeneity. Both molecular approaches demonstrated a TAR with a significant slope but, because of its more sensitive description of soil bacterial community richness, meta-barcoding provided significantly higher and more accurate estimates of turnover rates. Both approaches were useful in evidencing the processes shaping bacterial diversity variations on a broad scale. When different taxonomic resolutions were considered for meta-barcoding data, they significantly influenced the estimation of turnover rates but not the relative importance of each component process. Altogether, DNA meta-barcoding provides a more accurate evaluation of the TAR and may lead to re-examination of the processes shaping soil bacterial community assembly. This should provide new insights into soil microbial ecology in the context of sustainable use of soil resources.	2015	10.1038/hdy.2014.91
Birtel, J; Walser, JC; Pichon, S; Burgmann, H; Matthews, B	Estimating Bacterial Diversity for Ecological Studies: Methods, Metrics, and Assumptions	PLOS ONE	Methods to estimate microbial diversity have developed rapidly in an effort to understand the distribution and diversity of microorganisms in natural environments. For bacterial communities, the 16S rRNA gene is the phylogenetic marker gene of choice, but most studies select only a specific region of the 16S rRNA to estimate bacterial diversity. Whereas biases derived from from DNA extraction, primer choice and PCR amplification are well documented, we here address how the choice of variable region can influence a wide range of standard ecological metrics, such as species richness, phylogenetic diversity, beta-diversity and rank-abundance distributions. We have used Illumina paired-end sequencing to estimate the bacterial diversity of 20 natural lakes across Switzerland derived from three trimmed variable 16S rRNA regions (V3, V4, V5). Species richness, phylogenetic diversity, community composition, beta-diversity, and rank-abundance distributions differed significantly between 16S rRNA regions. Overall, patterns of diversity quantified by the V3 and V5 regions were more similar to one another than those assessed by the V4 region. Similar results were obtained when analyzing the datasets with different sequence similarity thresholds used during sequences clustering and when the same analysis was used on a reference dataset of sequences from the Greengenes database. In addition we also measured species richness from the same lake samples using ARISA Fingerprinting, but did not find a strong relationship between species richness estimated by Illumina and ARISA. We conclude that the selection of 16S rRNA region significantly influences the estimation of bacterial diversity and species distributions and that caution is warranted when comparing data from different variable regions as well as when using different sequencing techniques.	2015	10.1371/journal.pone.0125356
Grattepanche, JD; Santoferrara, LF; McManus, GB; Katz, LA	Distinct assemblage of planktonic ciliates dominates both photic and deep waters on the New England shelf	MARINE ECOLOGY PROGRESS SERIES	Microbes are critical members of marine ecosystems, given their roles as both primary producers and consumers in food webs. Despite their importance, data on biogeographical patterns of microbial eukaryotes are limited. Past studies have generally targeted either all eukaryotes or broad clades like Rhizaria and Alveolata. For this study, we focus more narrowly on oligotrich and choreotrich ciliates (both members of the class Spirotrichea) as these lineages play major roles in marine food webs. We assess distribution patterns of abundant ciliate community members along a 163 km transect off the coast of New England, USA. Over 3 d, we sampled ciliates at 23 stations from shallow waters (<30 m depth) to beyond the continental shelf (>800 m). We used a community DNA fingerprinting technique, denaturing gradient gel electropho resis (DGGE), to assess patterns for abundant community members and found 2 overlapping assemblages of ciliates: one common in samples from inshore to offshore (up to 180 km from the coast) and from the surface to 850 m deep; and a second that is generally restricted to offshore waters. The distributions of these 2 assemblages correspond with distance from the coast but not with the environmental factors that we measured, including depth, temperature, degree of stratification, phytoplankton fluorescence and accessory pigment composition (a proxy for phytoplankton composition). The presence of these ciliate assemblages as deep as 850 m suggests they may have a broader impact on marine food webs than just photic zone herbivory.	2015	10.3354/meps11256
Liu, J; Wang, JN; Gao, GH; Bartlam, MG; Wang, YY	Distribution and diversity of fungi in freshwater sediments on a river catchment scale	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Fungal communities perform essential functions in biogeochemical cycles. However, knowledge of fungal community structural changes in river ecosystems is still very limited. In the present study, we combined culture-dependent and culture-independent methods to investigate fungal distribution and diversity in sediment on a regional scale in the Songhua River catchment, located in North-East Asia. A total of 147 samples over the whole river catchment were analyzed. The results showed that compared to the mainstream, the tributaries have a higher fungal community organization and culturable fungal concentration, but possess lower community dynamics as assessed by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE). Furthermore, phylogenetic analysis of DGGE bands showed that Ascomycota and Basidiomycota were the predominant community in the Songhua River catchment. Redundancy analysis revealed that longitude was the primary factor determining the variation of fungal community structure, and fungal biomass was mainly related to the total nutrient content. Our findings provide new insights into the characteristics of fungal community distribution in a temperate zone river at a regional scale, and demonstrate that fungal dispersal is restricted by geographical barriers in a whole river catchment.	2015	10.3389/fmicb.7015.00329
Kim, Y; Liesack, W	Differential Assemblage of Functional Units in Paddy Soil Microbiomes	PLOS ONE	Flooded rice fields are not only a global food source but also a major biogenic source of atmospheric methane. Using metatranscriptomics, we comparatively explored structural and functional succession of paddy soil microbiomes in the oxic surface layer and anoxic bulk soil. Cyanobacteria, Fungi, Xanthomonadales, Myxococcales, and Methylococcales were the most abundant and metabolically active groups in the oxic zone, while Clostridia, Actinobacteria, Geobacter, Anaeromyxobacter, Anaerolineae, and methanogenic archaea dominated the anoxic zone. The protein synthesis potential of these groups was about 75% and 50% of the entire community capacity, respectively. Their structure-function relationships in microbiome succession were revealed by classifying the protein-coding transcripts into core, non-core, and taxon-specific transcripts based on homologous gene distribution. The differential expression of core transcripts between the two microbiomes indicated that structural succession is primarily governed by the cellular ability to adapt to the given oxygen condition, involving oxidative stress, nitrogen/phosphorus metabolism, and fermentation. By contrast, the non-core transcripts were expressed from genes involved in the metabolism of various carbon sources. Among those, taxon-specific transcripts revealed highly specialized roles of the dominant groups in community-wide functioning. For instance, taxon-specific transcripts involved in photosynthesis and methane oxidation were a characteristic of the oxic zone, while those related to methane production and aromatic compound degradation were specific to the anoxic zone. Degradation of organic matters, antibiotics resistance, and secondary metabolite production were detected to be expressed in both the oxic and anoxic zones, but by different taxonomic groups. Cross-feeding of methanol between members of the Methylococcales and Xanthomonadales was suggested by the observation that in the oxic zone, they both exclusively expressed homologous genes encoding methanol dehydrogenase. Our metatranscriptomic analysis suggests that paddy soil microbiomes act as complex, functionally coordinated assemblages whose taxonomic composition is governed by the prevailing habitat factors and their hierarchical importance for community succession.	2015	10.1371/journal.pone.0122221
Miyashita, NT	Contrasting soil bacterial community structure between the phyla Acidobacteria and Proteobacteria in tropical Southeast Asian and temperate Japanese forests	GENES & GENETIC SYSTEMS	Soil bacterial community structures of six dominant phyla (Acidobacteria, Proteobacteria, Verrucomicrobia, Planctomycetes, Bacteroidetes and Actinobacteria) and unclassified bacteria detected in tropical Sarawakian and temperate Japanese forests were compared based on 16S rRNA gene sequence variation. The class composition in each phylum was similar among the studied forests; however, significant heterogeneities of class frequencies were detected. Acidobacteria and Proteobacteria were the most dominant phyla in all six forests, but differed in the level of bacterial species diversity, pattern of species occurrence and association pattern of species composition with physicochemical properties in soil. Species diversity among Acidobacteria was approximately half that among Proteobacteria, based on the number of clusters and the Chaol index, even though a similar number of sequence reads were obtained for these two phyla. In contrast, species diversity within Planctomycetes and Bacteroidetes was nearly as high as within Acidobacteria, despite many fewer sequence reads. The density of species (the number of sequence reads per cluster) correlated negatively with species diversity, and species density within Acidobacteria was approximately twice that within Proteobacteria. Although the percentage of forest-specific species was high for all bacterial groups, sampling site-specific species varied among bacterial groups, indicating limited inter-forest migration and differential movement of bacteria in forest soil. For five of the seven bacterial groups, including Acidobacteria, soil pH appeared to strongly influence species composition, but this association was not observed for Proteobacterial species. Topology of UPGMA trees and pattern of NMDS plots among the forests differed among the bacterial groups, suggesting that each bacterial group has adapted and evolved independently in each forest.	2015	
Kammerlander, B; Breiner, HW; Filker, S; Sommaruga, R; Sonntag, B; Stoeck, T	High diversity of protistan plankton communities in remote high mountain lakes in the European Alps and the Himalayan mountains	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	We analyzed the genetic diversity (V4 region of the 18S rRNA) of planktonic microbial eukaryotes in four high mountain lakes including two remote biogeographic regions (the Himalayan mountains and the European Alps) and distinct habitat types (clear and glacier-fed turbid lakes). The recorded high genetic diversity in these lakes was far beyond of what is described from high mountain lake plankton. In total, we detected representatives from 66 families with the main taxon groups being Alveolata (55.0% OTUs(97%), operational taxonomic units), Stramenopiles (34.0% OTUs(97%)), Cryptophyta (4.0% OTUs(97%)), Chloroplastida (3.6% OTUs(97%)) and Fungi (1.7% OTUs(97%)). Centrohelida, Choanomonada, Rhizaria, Katablepharidae and Telonema were represented by < 1% OTUs(97%). Himalayan lakes harbored a higher plankton diversity compared to the Alpine lakes (Shannon index). Community structures were significantly different between lake types and biogeographic regions (Fisher exact test, P < 0.01). Network analysis revealed that more families of the Chloroplastida (10 vs 5) and the Stramenopiles (14 vs 8) were found in the Himalayan lakes than in the Alpine lakes and none of the fungal families was shared between them. Biogeographic aspects as well as ecological factors such as water turbidity may structure the microbial eukaryote plankton communities in such remote lakes.	2015	10.1093/femsec/fiv010
Mares, J; Lara, Y; Dadakova, I; Hauer, T; Uher, B; Wilmotte, A; Kastovsky, J	PHYLOGENETIC ANALYSIS OF CULTIVATION-RESISTANT TERRESTRIAL CYANOBACTERIA WITH MASSIVE SHEATHS (STIGONEMA SPP. AND PETALONEMA ALATUM, NOSTOCALES, CYANOBACTERIA) USING SINGLE-CELL AND FILAMENT SEQUENCING OF ENVIRONMENTAL SAMPLES	JOURNAL OF PHYCOLOGY	Molecular assessment of a large portion of traditional cyanobacterial taxa has been hindered by the failure to isolate and grow them in culture. In this study, we developed an optimized protocol for single cell/filament isolation and 16S rRNA gene sequencing of terrestrial cyanobacteria with large mucilaginous sheaths, and applied it to determine the phylogenetic position of typical members of the genera Petalonema and Stigonema. A methodology based on a glass-capillary isolation technique and a semi-nested PCR protocol enabled reliable sequencing of the 16S rRNA gene from all samples analyzed. Ten samples covering seven species of Stigonema from Europe, North and Central America, and Hawaii, and the type species of Petalonema from Slovakia were sequenced. Contrary to some previous studies, which proposed a relationship with heteropolar nostocalean cyanobacteria, Petalonema appeared to belong to the family Scytonemataceae. Analysis of Stigonema specimens recovered a unique coherent phylogenetic cluster, substantially broadening our knowledge of the molecular diversity within this genus. Neither the uni- to biseriate species nor the multiseriate species formed monophyletic subclusters within the genus. Typical multiseriate species of Stigonema clustered in a phylogenetic branch derived from uni- to biseriate S. ocellatum Thuret ex Bornet & Flahault in our analysis, suggesting that species with more complex thalli may have evolved from the more simple ones. We propose the technique tested in this study as a promising tool for a future revision of the molecular taxonomy in cyanobacteria.	2015	10.1111/jpy.12273
Wall, K; Cornell, J; Bizzoco, RW; Kelley, ST	Biodiversity hot spot on a hot spot: novel extremophile diversity in Hawaiian fumaroles	MICROBIOLOGYOPEN	Fumaroles (steam vents) are the most common, yet least understood, microbial habitat in terrestrial geothermal settings. Long believed too extreme for life, recent advances in sample collection and DNA extraction methods have found that fumarole deposits and subsurface waters harbor a considerable diversity of viable microbes. In this study, we applied culture-independent molecular methods to explore fumarole deposit microbial assemblages in 15 different fumaroles in four geographic locations on the Big Island of Hawaii. Just over half of the vents yielded sufficient high-quality DNA for the construction of 16S ribosomal RNA gene sequence clone libraries. The bacterial clone libraries contained sequences belonging to 11 recognized bacterial divisions and seven other division-level phylogenetic groups. Archaeal sequences were less numerous, but similarly diverse. The taxonomic composition among fumarole deposits was highly heterogeneous. Phylogenetic analysis found cloned fumarole sequences were related to microbes identified from a broad array of globally distributed ecotypes, including hot springs, terrestrial soils, and industrial waste sites. Our results suggest that fumarole deposits function as an extremophile collector and may be a hot spot of novel extremophile biodiversity.	2015	10.1002/mbo3.236
Liu, JJ; Sui, YY; Yu, ZH; Shi, Y; Chu, HY; Jin, J; Liu, XB; Wang, GH	Soil carbon content drives the biogeographical distribution of fungal communities in the black soil zone of northeast China	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	Black soils (Mollisols) are one of the most important soil resources for maintaining food security in China, and they are mainly distributed in northeast China. A previous comprehensive study revealed the biogeographical distribution patterns of bacterial communities in the black soil zone. In this study, we used the same soil samples and analyzed the 454 pyrosequencing data for the nuclear ribosomal internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region to examine the fungal communities in these black soils. A total of 220,812 fungal ITS sequences were obtained from 26 soil samples that were collected across the black soil zone. These sequences were classified into at least 5 phyla, 20 classes, greater than 70 orders and over 350 genera, suggesting a high fungal diversity across the black soils. The diversity of fungal communities and distribution of several abundant fungal taxa were significantly related to the soil carbon content. Non-metric multidimensional scaling and canonical correspondence analysis plots indicated that the fungal community composition was most strongly affected by the soil carbon content followed by soil pH. This finding differs from the bacterial community results, which indicated that soil pH was the most important edaphic factor in determining the bacterial community composition of these black soils. A variance partitioning analysis indicated that the geographic distance contributed 20% of the fungal community variation and soil environmental factors that were characterized explained approximately 35%. A pairwise analysis revealed that the diversity of the fungal community was relatively higher at lower latitudes, which is similar to the findings for the bacterial communities in the same region and suggests that a latitudinal gradient of microbial community diversity might occur in the black soil zone. By incorporating our previous findings on the bacterial communities, we can conclude that contemporary factors of soil characteristics are more important than historical factor of geographic distance in shaping the microbial community in the black soil zone of northeast China. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2015	10.1016/j.soilbio.2015.01.009
Heino, J; Soininen, J; Alahuhta, J; Lappalainen, J; Virtanen, R	A comparative analysis of metacommunity types in the freshwater realm	ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION	Most metacommunity studies have taken a direct mechanistic approach, aiming to model the effects of local and regional processes on local communities within a metacommunity. An alternative approach is to focus on emergent patterns at the metacommunity level through applying the elements of metacommunity structure (EMS; Oikos, 97, 2002, 237) analysis. The EMS approach has very rarely been applied in the context of a comparative analysis of metacommunity types of main microbial, plant, and animal groups. Furthermore, to our knowledge, no study has associated metacommunity types with their potential ecological correlates in the freshwater realm. We assembled data for 45 freshwater metacommunities, incorporating biologically highly disparate organismal groups (i.e., bacteria, algae, macrophytes, invertebrates, and fish). We first examined ecological correlates (e.g., matrix properties, beta diversity, and average characteristics of a metacommunity, including body size, trophic group, ecosystem type, life form, and dispersal mode) of the three elements of metacommunity structure (i.e., coherence, turnover, and boundary clumping). Second, based on those three elements, we determined which metacommunity types prevailed in freshwater systems and which ecological correlates best discriminated among the observed metacommunity types. We found that the three elements of metacommunity structure were not strongly related to the ecological correlates, except that turnover was positively related to beta diversity. We observed six metacommunity types. The most common were Clementsian and quasi-nested metacommunity types, whereas Random, quasi-Clementsian, Gleasonian, and quasi-Gleasonian types were less common. These six metacommunity types were best discriminated by beta diversity and the first axis of metacommunity ecological traits, ranging from metacommunities of producer organisms occurring in streams to those of large predatory organisms occurring in lakes. Our results showed that focusing on the emergent properties of multiple metacommunities provides information additional to that obtained in studies examining variation in local community structure within a metacommunity.	2015	10.1002/ece3.1460
Morrissey, BJ; Helgason, T; Poppinga, L; Funfhaus, A; Genersch, E; Budge, GE	Biogeography of Paenibacillus larvae, the causative agent of American foulbrood, using a new multilocus sequence typing scheme	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	American foulbrood is the most destructive brood disease of honeybees (Apis mellifera) globally. The absence of a repeatable, universal typing scheme for the causative bacterium Paenibacillus larvae has restricted our understanding of disease epidemiology. We have created the first multilocus sequence typing scheme (MLST) for P.larvae, which largely confirms the previous enterobacterial repetitive intergenic consensus (ERIC)-polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based typing schemes divisions while providing added resolution and improved repeatability. We have used the new scheme to determine the distribution and biogeography of 294 samples of P.larvae from across six continents. We found that of the two most epidemiologically important ERIC types, ERIC I was more diverse than ERIC II. Analysis of the fixation index (F-ST) by distance suggested a significant relationship between genetic and geographic distance, suggesting that population structure exists in populations of P.larvae. Interestingly, this effect was only observed within the native range of the host and was absent in areas where international trade has moved honeybees and their disease. Correspondence analysis demonstrated similar sequence type (ST) distributions between native and non-native countries and that ERIC I and II STs mainly have differing distributions. The new typing scheme facilitates epidemiological study of this costly disease of a key pollinator.	2015	10.1111/1462-2920.12625
Segura, AM; Calliari, D; Kruk, C; Fort, H; Izaguirre, I; Saad, JF; Arim, M	Metabolic dependence of phytoplankton species richness	GLOBAL ECOLOGY AND BIOGEOGRAPHY	AimTo analyse the dependence of phytoplankton species richness on temperature within the framework of the metabolic theory of ecology (MTE) with explicit consideration of its assumptions and predictions. LocationLakes from the Southern Hemisphere - South America (Argentinean Pampa to Tierra del Fuego) and Antarctica - and Northern Hemisphere - North America (USA) and Europe (Denmark to Spain). MethodsThe MTE proposes that natural logarithm of species richness and the inverse of temperature are linearly related, with a slope equal to the activation energy. The MTE assumes that the total community abundance, average body size and per species average community productivity are independent of the temperature. These predictions and assumptions are here evaluated using c. 660 phytoplankton lake communities and a literature review of 281 experimental measures of growth rate. Linear, curvilinear and segmented models were contrasted with empirical trends. ResultsTemperature-richness relationships showed a three-phase segmented form in two of the three continents. Generally, at temperatures above 17 degrees C and below 11 degrees C there was a weak relationship or none. Intermediate temperatures showed the expected positive association with richness, but with steeper slopes (c. 1) than MTE expectations (c. 0.3). Statistical models including total community abundance and average body size explained up to 64% of the variance in richness. Main conclusionsIn its original formulation the MTE is not a satisfactory model for large-scale richness patterns in phytoplankton. However, the MTE is able to better explain richness patterns when the temperature dependence of abundances and body size are explicitly accounted for in the model. These temperature dependences improve the performance of MTE predictions but question the interpretation of the richness-temperature slope as a measure of activation energy. The balance among activation energy, abundance and body size produced the observed segmented pattern in temperature-richness relationships for lake phytoplankton.	2015	10.1111/geb.12258
Parker, MA	The Spread of Bradyrhizobium Lineages Across Host Legume Clades: from Abarema to Zygia	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	To analyze macroevolutionary patterns in host use by Bradyrhizobium root-nodule bacteria, 420 strains from 75 legume host genera (sampled in 25 countries) were characterized for portions of six housekeeping genes and the nifD locus in the symbiosis island chromosomal region. Most Bradyrhizobium clades utilized very divergent sets of legume hosts. This suggests that Bradyrhizobium spread across the major legume lineages early in its evolution, with only a few derived clades subsequently developing a narrower pattern of host use. Significant modularity existed in the network structure of recent host jumps (inferred from cases where closely related strain pairs were found on different legume taxa). This implies that recent host switching has occurred most often within particular subgroups of legumes. Nevertheless, the observed link structure would allow a bacterial lineage to reach almost any of the 75 legume host genera in a relatively small number of steps. However, permutation tests also showed that symbionts from certain host plant clades were significantly more similar than would be the case if bacteria were distributed at random on the trees. Related legumes thus harbored related sets of symbionts in some cases, indicating some degree of phylogenetic conservatism in partner selection.	2015	10.1007/s00248-014-0503-5
Lynch, MDJ; Neufeld, JD	Ecology and exploration of the rare biosphere	NATURE REVIEWS MICROBIOLOGY	The profound influence of microorganisms on human life and global biogeochemical cycles underlines the value of studying the biogeography of microorganisms, exploring microbial genomes and expanding our understanding of most microbial species on Earth: that is, those present at low relative abundance. The detection and subsequent analysis of low-abundance microbial populations-the rare biosphere - have demonstrated the persistence, population dynamics, dispersion and predation of these microbial species. We discuss the ecology of rare microbial populations, and highlight molecular and computational methods for targeting taxonomic blind spots within the rare biosphere of complex microbial communities.	2015	10.1038/nrmicro3400
Monier, A; Comte, J; Babin, M; Forest, A; Matsuoka, A; Lovejoy, C	Oceanographic structure drives the assembly processes of microbial eukaryotic communities	ISME JOURNAL	Arctic Ocean microbial eukaryote phytoplankton form subsurface chlorophyll maximum (SCM), where much of the annual summer production occurs. This SCM is particularly persistent in the Western Arctic Ocean, which is strongly salinity stratified. The recent loss of multiyear sea ice and increased particulate-rich river discharge in the Arctic Ocean results in a greater volume of fresher water that may displace nutrient-rich saltier waters to deeper depths and decrease light penetration in areas affected by river discharge. Here, we surveyed microbial eukaryotic assemblages in the surface waters, and within and below the SCM. In most samples, we detected the pronounced SCM that usually occurs at the interface of the upper mixed layer and Pacific Summer Water (PSW). Poorly developed SCM was seen under two conditions, one above PSW and associated with a downwelling eddy, and the second in a region influenced by the Mackenzie River plume. Four phylogenetically distinct communities were identified: surface, pronounced SCM, weak SCM and a deeper community just below the SCM. Distance-decay relationships and phylogenetic structure suggested distinct ecological processes operating within these communities. In the pronounced SCM, picophytoplanktons were prevalent and community assembly was attributed to water mass history. In contrast, environmental filtering impacted the composition of the weak SCM communities, where heterotrophic Picozoa were more numerous. These results imply that displacement of Pacific waters to greater depth and increased terrigenous input may act as a control on SCM development and result in lower net summer primary production with a more heterotroph dominated eukaryotic microbial community.	2015	10.1038/ismej.2014.197
Yasuda, K; Oh, K; Ren, BY; Tickle, TL; Franzosa, EA; Wachtman, LM; Miller, AD; Westmoreland, SV; Mansfield, KG; Vallender, EJ; Miller, GM; Rowlett, JK; Gevers, D; Huttenhower, C; Morgan, XC	Biogeography of the Intestinal Mucosal and Lumenal Microbiome in the Rhesus Macaque	CELL HOST & MICROBE	The gut microbiome is widely studied by fecal sampling, but the extent to which stool reflects the commensal composition at intestinal sites is poorly understood. We investigated this relationship in rhesus macaques by 16S sequencing feces and paired lumenal and mucosal samples from ten sites distal to the jejunum. Stool composition correlated highly with the colonic lumen and mucosa and moderately with the distal small intestine. The mucosal microbiota varied most based on location and was enriched in oxygen-tolerant taxa (e.g., Helicobacter and Treponema), while the lumenal microbiota showed inter-individual variation and obligate anaerobe enrichment (e.g., Firmicutes). This mucosal and lumenal community variability corresponded to functional differences, such as nutrient availability. Additionally, Helicobacter, Faecalibacterium, and Lactobacillus levels in stool were highly predictive of their abundance at most other gut sites. These results quantify the composition and biogeographic relationships between gut microbial communities in macaques and support fecal sampling for translational studies.	2015	10.1016/j.chom.2015.01.015
MacIntyre, DA; Chandiramani, M; Lee, YS; Kindinger, L; Smith, A; Angelopoulos, N; Lehne, B; Arulkumaran, S; Brown, R; Teoh, TG; Holmes, E; Nicoholson, JK; Marchesi, JR; Bennett, PR	The vaginal microbiome during pregnancy and the postpartum period in a European population	SCIENTIFIC REPORTS	The composition and structure of the pregnancy vaginal microbiome may influence susceptibility to adverse pregnancy outcomes. Studies on the pregnant vaginal microbiome have largely been limited to Northern American populations. Using MiSeq sequencing of 16S rRNA gene amplicons, we characterised the vaginal microbiota of a mixed British cohort of women (n=42) who experienced uncomplicated term delivery and who were sampled longitudinally throughout pregnancy (8-12, 20-22, 28-30 and 34-36 weeks gestation) and 6 weeks postpartum. We show that vaginal microbiome composition dramatically changes postpartum to become less Lactobacillus spp. dominant with increased alpha-diversity irrespective of the community structure during pregnancy and independent of ethnicity. While the pregnancy vaginal microbiome was characteristically dominated by Lactobacillus spp. and low alpha-diversity, unlike Northern American populations, a significant number of pregnant women this British population had a L. jensenii-dominated microbiome characterised by low alpha-diversity. L. jensenii was predominantly observed in women of Asian and Caucasian ethnicity whereas L. gasseri was absent in samples from Black women. This study reveals new insights into biogeographical and ethnic effects upon the pregnancy and postpartum vaginal microbiome and has important implications for future studies exploring relationships between the vaginal microbiome, host health and pregnancy outcomes.	2015	10.1038/srep08988
Hazen, RM; Grew, ES; Downs, RT; Golden, J; Hystad, G	MINERAL ECOLOGY: CHANCE AND NECESSITY IN THE MINERAL DIVERSITY OF TERRESTRIAL PLANETS	CANADIAN MINERALOGIST	Four factors contribute to the roles played by chance and necessity in determining mineral distribution and diversity at or near the surfaces of terrestrial planets: (1) crystal chemical characteristics; (2) mineral stability ranges; (3) the probability of occurrence for rare minerals; and (4) stellar and planetary stoichiometries in extrasolar systems. The most abundant elements generally have the largest numbers of mineral species, as modeled by relationships for Earths upper continental crust (E) and the Moon (M), respectively: Log (N-E) = 0: 22 Log (C-E) + 1.70 (R-2 = 0.34)(4861 minerals, 72 elements) Log (N-M) = 0.19 Log (C-M) + 0.23 (R-2 = 0.68) (63 minerals, 24 elements) where C is an elements abundance in ppm and N is the number of mineral species in which that element is essential. Several elements that plot significantly below the trend for Earths upper continental crust (e.g., Ga, Hf, and Rb) mimic other more abundant elements and thus are less likely to form their own species. Other elements (e.g., Ag, As, Cu, Pb, S, and U) plot significantly above the trend, which we attribute to their unique crystal chemical affinities, multiple coordination and oxidation states, their extreme concentration in some ore-forming fluids, and/or frequent occurrence with a variety of other rare elements-all factors that increase the diversity of mineral species incorporating these elements. The corresponding diagram for the Moon shows a tighter fit, most likely because none of these elements, except Cu and S, are essential constituents in lunar minerals. Given the similar slopes for Earth and the Moon, we suggest that the increase in mineral diversity with element abundance is a deterministic aspect of planetary mineral diversity. Though based on a limited number of collecting sites, the Moons observed mineralogical diversity could be close to the minimum for a rocky planet or moon comparable in size-a baseline against which diversity of other terrestrial planets and moons having radii in the same range as Earth and its Moon can be measured. Mineral-forming processes on the Moon are limited to igneous activity, meteor impacts, and the solar wind-processes that could affect any planet or moon. By contrast, other terrestrial planets and moons have been subjected to more varied physical, chemical, and (in the case of Earth) biological processes that can increase mineral diversity in both deterministic and stochastic ways. Total mineral diversity for different elements is not appreciably influenced by the relative stabilities of individual phases, e.g., the broad pressure-temperature-composition stability ranges of cinnabar (HgS) and zircon (ZrSiO4) do not significantly diminish the diversity of Hg or Zr minerals. Moreover, the significant expansion of near-surface redox conditions on Earth through the evolution of microbial oxygenic photosynthesis tripled the available composition space of Earths near-surface environment, and resulted in a corresponding tripling of mineral diversity subsequent to atmospheric oxidation. Of 4933 approved mineral species, 34% are known from only one or two localities, and more than half are known from five or fewer localities. Statistical analysis of this frequency distribution suggests that thousands of other plausible rare mineral species await discovery or could have occurred at some point in Earths history, only to be subsequently lost by burial, erosion, or subduction-i.e., much of Earths mineral diversity associated with rare species results from stochastic processes. Measurements of stellar stoichiometry reveal that stars can differ significantly from the Sun in relative abundances of rock-forming elements, which implies that bulk compositions of some extrasolar Earth-like planets likely differ significantly from those of Earth, particularly if the fractionation processes in evolving stellar nebulas and planetary differentiation are factored in. Comparison of Earths upper continental crust and the Moon shows that differences in element ratios are reflected in ratios of mineral species containing these elements. In summary, although deterministic factors control the distribution of the most common rock-forming minerals in Earths upper continental crust and on the Moon, stochastic processes play a significant role in the diversity of less common minerals. Were Earths history to be replayed, and thousands of mineral species discovered and characterized anew, it is probable that many of those minerals would differ from species known today.	2015	10.3749/canmin.1400086
Bautista, MA; Zhang, CY; Whitaker, RJ	Virus-Induced Dormancy in the Archaeon Sulfolobus islandicus	MBIO	We investigated the interaction between Sulfolobus spindle-shaped virus (SSV9) and its native archaeal host Sulfolobus islandicus. We show that upon exposure to SSV9, S. islandicus strain RJW002 has a significant growth delay where the majority of cells are dormant (viable but not growing) for 24 to 48 hours postinfection (hpi) compared to the growth of controls without virus. We demonstrate that in this system, dormancy (i) is induced by both active and inactive virus particles at a low multiplicity of infection (MOI), (ii) is reversible in strains with active CRISPR-Cas immunity that prevents the establishment of productive infections, and (iii) results in dramatic and rapid host death if virus persists in the culture even at low levels. Our results add a new dimension to evolutionary models of virus-host interactions, showing that the mere presence of a virus induces host cell stasis and death independent of infection. This novel, highly sensitive, and risky bet-hedging antiviral response must be integrated into models of virus-host interactions in this system so that the true ecological impact of viruses can be predicted and understood. IMPORTANCE Viruses of microbes play key roles in microbial ecology; however, our understanding of viral impact on host physiology is based on a few model bacteria that represent a small fraction of the life history strategies employed by hosts or viruses across the three domains that encompass the microbial world. We have demonstrated that rare and even inactive viruses induce dormancy in the model archaeon S. islandicus. Similar virus-induced dormancy strategies in other microbial systems may help to explain several confounding observations in other systems, including the surprising abundance of dormant cell types found in many microbial environments, the difficulty of culturing microorganisms in the laboratory, and the paradoxical virus-to-host abundances that do not match model predictions. A more accurate grasp of virus-host interactions will expand our understanding of the impact of viruses in microbial ecology.	2015	10.1128/mBio.02565-14
Liang, YT; Wu, LY; Clark, IM; Xue, K; Yang, YF; Van Nostrand, JD; Deng, Y; He, ZL; McGrath, S; Storkey, J; Hirsch, PR; Sun, B; Zhou, JZ	Over 150 Years of Long-Term Fertilization Alters Spatial Scaling of Microbial Biodiversity	MBIO	Spatial scaling is a critical issue in ecology, but how anthropogenic activities like fertilization affect spatial scaling is poorly understood, especially for microbial communities. Here, we determined the effects of long-term fertilization on the spatial scaling of microbial functional diversity and its relationships to plant diversity in the 150-year-old Park Grass Experiment, the oldest continuous grassland experiment in the world. Nested samples were taken from plots with contrasting inorganic fertilization regimes, and community DNAs were analyzed using the GeoChip-based functional gene array. The slopes of microbial gene-area relationships (GARs) and plant species-area relationships (SARs) were estimated in a plot receiving nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P), and potassium (K) and a control plot without fertilization. Our results indicated that long-term inorganic fertilization significantly increased both microbial GARs and plant SARs. Microbial spatial turnover rates (i.e., z values) were less than 0.1 and were significantly higher in the fertilized plot (0.0583) than in the control plot (0.0449) (P < 0.0001). The z values also varied significantly with different functional genes involved in carbon (C), N, P, and sulfur (S) cycling and with various phylogenetic groups (archaea, bacteria, and fungi). Similarly, the plant SARs increased significantly (P < 0.0001), from 0.225 in the control plot to 0.419 in the fertilized plot. Soil fertilization, plant diversity, and spatial distance had roughly equal contributions in shaping the microbial functional community structure, while soil geochemical variables contributed less. These results indicated that long-term agricultural practice could alter the spatial scaling of microbial biodiversity. IMPORTANCE Determining the spatial scaling of microbial biodiversity and its response to human activities is important but challenging in microbial ecology. Most studies to date are based on different sites that may not be truly comparable or on short-term perturbations, and hence, the results observed could represent transient responses. This study examined the spatial patterns of microbial communities in response to different fertilization regimes at the Rothamsted Research Experimental Station, which has become an invaluable resource for ecologists, environmentalists, and soil scientists. The current study is the first showing that long-term fertilization has dramatic impacts on the spatial scaling of microbial communities. By identifying the spatial patterns in response to long-term fertilization and their underlying mechanisms, this study makes fundamental contributions to predictive understanding of microbial biogeography.	2015	10.1128/mBio.00240-15
Zarraonaindia, I; Owens, SM; Weisenhorn, P; West, K; Hampton-Marcell, J; Lax, S; Bokulich, NA; Mills, DA; Martin, G; Taghavi, S; van der Lelie, D; Gilbert, JA	The Soil Microbiome Influences Grapevine-Associated Microbiota	MBIO	Grapevine is a well-studied, economically relevant crop, whose associated bacteria could influence its organoleptic properties. In this study, the spatial and temporal dynamics of the bacterial communities associated with grapevine organs (leaves, flowers, grapes, and roots) and soils were characterized over two growing seasons to determine the influence of vine cultivar, edaphic parameters, vine developmental stage (dormancy, flowering, preharvest), and vineyard. Belowground bacterial communities differed significantly from those aboveground, and yet the communities associated with leaves, flowers, and grapes shared a greater proportion of taxa with soil communities than with each other, suggesting that soil may serve as a bacterial reservoir. A subset of soil microorganisms, including root colonizers significantly enriched in plant growth-promoting bacteria and related functional genes, were selected by the grapevine. In addition to plant selective pressure, the structure of soil and root microbiota was significantly influenced by soil pH and C: N ratio, and changes in leaf-and grape-associated microbiota were correlated with soil carbon and showed interannual variation even at small spatial scales. Diazotrophic bacteria, e. g., Rhizobiaceae and Bradyrhizobium spp., were significantly more abundant in soil samples and root samples of specific vineyards. Vine-associated microbial assemblages were influenced by myriad factors that shape their composition and structure, but the majority of organ-associated taxa originated in the soil, and their distribution reflected the influence of highly localized biogeographic factors and vineyard management. IMPORTANCE Vine-associated bacterial communities may play specific roles in the productivity and disease resistance of their host plant. Also, the bacterial communities on grapes have the potential to influence the organoleptic properties of the wine, contributing to a regional terroir. Understanding that factors that influence these bacteria may provide insights into management practices to shape and craft individual wine properties. We show that soil serves as a key source of vine-associated bacteria and that edaphic factors and vineyard-specific properties can influence the native grapevine microbiome preharvest.	2015	10.1128/mBio.02527-14
van der Gast, CJ	Microbial biogeography: the end of the ubiquitous dispersal hypothesis?	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY		2015	10.1111/1462-2920.12635
Rysanek, D; Hrckova, K; Skaloud, P	Global ubiquity and local endemism of free-living terrestrial protists: phylogeographic assessment of the streptophyte alga Klebsormidium	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Despite considerable research attention during the last 10 years, the distribution and biogeography of protists remain as highly controversial issues. The presumably huge population sizes and unlimited dispersal capabilities should result in protist ubiquity. However, recent molecular investigations suggest that protist communities exhibit strong biogeographic patterns. Here, we examined the biogeographic pattern of a very common green algal genus Klebsormidium. We evaluated the geographic distribution of rbcL genotypes for 190 isolates sampled in six sampling regions located in Europe, North America and Asia. Measures of correlation between genetic and geographic distance matrices revealed a differential distribution pattern on two geographic levels. Globally, the populations were genetically homogeneous; locally, the genotypes were patchily distributed. We hypothesized that a local fine-scale structuring of genotypes may be caused by various ecological factors, in particular, by the habitat differentiation of particular genotypes. Our investigations also identified a large number of new, previously unrecognized lineages. A total of 44 genotypes were identified and more than 66% of these were reported for the first time.	2015	10.1111/1462-2920.12501
Hahn, MW; Koll, U; Jezberova, J; Camacho, A	Global phylogeography of pelagic Polynucleobacter bacteria: Restricted geographic distribution of subgroups, isolation by distance and influence of climate	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	The free-living planktonic freshwater bacterium Polynucleobacter necessarius subspecies asymbioticus (>99% 16S rRNA similarity) represents a taxon with a cosmopolitan distribution and apparently ubiquitous occurrence in lentic freshwater habitats. We tested for intra-taxon biogeographic patterns by combining cultivation-independent and cultivation methods. A culture collection of 204 strains isolated from globally distributed freshwater habitats (Arctic to Antarctica) was investigated for phylogeographic patterns based on sequences of two markers, the 16S-23S internal transcribed spacers and the glutamine synthetase gene (glnA). Genetic distance between isolates showed significant geographic distance-decay patterns for both markers, suggesting that an isolation-by-distance mechanism influences the global phylogeography. Furthermore, a couple of subgroups showed restricted geographic distributions. Strains of one subgroup were exclusively obtained from tropical sites on four continents (pantropical subgroup). Cultivation-independent methods were used to confirm the restricted geographic distributions of two subgroups. The pantropical taxon could be detected in 63% of investigated tropical habitats but not in any of 121 European freshwater samples. Physiological tests indicated that almost all strains of the pantropical subgroup failed to grow at temperatures of 4 degrees C, while strains affiliated with other subgroups showed good growth at this temperature. This suggests that thermal adaptation is involved in phylogeographic structuring of the global Polynucleobacter population.	2015	10.1111/1462-2920.12532
Morales, SE; Jha, N; Saggar, S	Biogeography and biophysicochemical traits link N2O emissions, N2O emission potential and microbial communities across New Zealand pasture soils	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	The process of denitrification has been studied for decades, with current evidence suggesting that an ecosystems ability to produce and emit N2O is controlled both by transient proximal regulators (e.g. temperature, moisture, N availability) as well as distal regulators (e.g. soil type, microbial functional diversity, geography). In this study we use New Zealand soils as a model system to test the impact of distal regulators (i.e. geography) on microbial communities and their N2O emission potential. Using gas chromatography, soil chemical analyses, 16S amplicon sequencing, terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) and quantitative PCR (qPCR) on three denitrifier functional genes (nirS, nirK and nosZ), we assessed the factors linked to N2O emissions across a latitudinal gradient. Results show that soil drainage class, soil texture class, and latitude were powerful regulators of both emissions and emission end products (N-2 vs. N2O). Mixed models demonstrate that a few variables (including latitude, texture class, drainage class and denitrifier community data [abundance and diversity] amongst others) were enough to predict both the amount and type of gas emitted. In addition we show that microbial community composition (based on 16S rRNA gene sequencing) can also be used to predict both the gas species and quantity emitted. (c) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2015	10.1016/j.soilbio.2014.12.018
Thaler, M; Lovejoy, C	Biogeography of Heterotrophic Flagellate Populations Indicates the Presence of Generalist and Specialist Taxa in the Arctic Ocean	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Heterotrophic marine flagellates (HF) are ubiquitous in the worlds oceans and represented in nearly all branches of the domain Eukaryota. However, the factors determining distributions of major taxonomic groups are poorly known. The Arctic Ocean is a good model environment for examining the distribution of functionally similar but phylogenetically diverse HF because the physical oceanography and annual ice cycles result in distinct environments that could select for microbial communities or favor specific taxa. We reanalyzed new and previously published high-throughput sequencing data from multiple studies in the Arctic Ocean to identify broad patterns in the distribution of individual taxa. HF accounted for fewer than 2% to over one-half of the reads from the water column and for up to 60% of reads from ice, which was dominated by Cryothecomonas. In the water column, many HF phylotypes belonging to Telonemia and Picozoa, uncultured marine stramenopiles (MAST), and choanoflagellates were geographically widely distributed. However, for two groups in particular, Telonemia and Cryothecomonas, some species level taxa showed more restricted distributions. For example, several phylotypes of Telonemia favored open waters with lower nutrients such as the Canada Basin and offshore of the Mackenzie Shelf. In summary, we found that while some Arctic HF were successful over a range of conditions, others could be specialists that occur under particular conditions. We conclude that tracking species level diversity in HF not only is feasible but also provides a potential tool for understanding the responses of marine microbial ecosystems to rapidly changing ice regimes.	2015	10.1128/AEM.02737-14
Kraemer, SA; Kassen, R	Patterns of Local Adaptation in Space and Time among Soil Bacteria	AMERICAN NATURALIST	Our understanding of microbial biogeography has been governed by the dictum Everything is everywhere, but the environment selects. In other words, the distribution of microbes is thought to occur in a regime of extensive dispersal and strong selection, generating local adaptation. However, direct tests of these assumptions are rare. Here, we investigate the extent of local adaptation in space and time of a collection of soil-derived microbial isolates, most belonging to the genus Pseudomonas, across a growing season from a deciduous forest in western Quebec, Canada, using a reciprocal transplant design. Average performance of all clones varied substantially in both space and time, in line with the expectation of strong selection in both dimensions. The behavior of genotype-by-environment variance in fitness and its components, responsiveness and inconsistency, in space and through time suggests that the strength of divergent selection increases as sites become more distant from each other in both dimensions. However, divergent selection was not strong enough to maintain different specialized types across the environments studied, which suggests that Pseudomonas and their close relatives are not locally adapted to the prevailing conditions of growth.	2015	10.1086/679585
Glassman, SI; Peay, KG; Talbot, JM; Smith, DP; Chung, JA; Taylor, JW; Vilgalys, R; Bruns, TD	A continental view of pine-associated ectomycorrhizal fungal spore banks: a quiescent functional guild with a strong biogeographic pattern	NEW PHYTOLOGIST	Ecologists have long acknowledged the importance of seed banks; yet, despite the fact that many plants rely on mycorrhizal fungi for survival and growth, the structure of ectomycorrhizal (ECM) fungal spore banks remains poorly understood. The primary goal of this study was to assess the geographic structure in pine-associated ECM fungal spore banks across the North American continent. Soils were collected from 19 plots in forests across North America. Fresh soils were pyrosequenced for fungal internal transcribed spacer (ITS) amplicons. Adjacent soil cores were dried and bioassayed with pine seedlings, and colonized roots were pyrosequenced to detect resistant propagules of ECM fungi. The results showed that ECM spore banks correlated strongly with biogeographic location, but not with the identity of congeneric plant hosts. Minimal community overlap was found between resident ECM fungi vs those in spore banks, and spore bank assemblages were relatively simple and dominated by Rhizopogon, Wilcoxina, Cenococcum, Thelephora, Tuber, Laccaria and Suillus. Similar to plant seed banks, ECM fungal spore banks are, in general, depauperate, and represent a small and rare subset of the mature forest soil fungal community. Yet, they may be extremely important in fungal colonization after large-scale disturbances such as clear cuts and forest fires.	2015	10.1111/nph.13240
Piccini, C; Garcia-Alonso, J	Bacterial diversity patterns of the intertidal biofilm in urban beaches of Rio de la Plata	MARINE POLLUTION BULLETIN	Intertidal benthic ecosystems in estuaries are productive sites where microbial processes play critical roles in nutrients mineralization, primary production and trophic web. In this groundwork study we analyzed the bacterial community of intertidal biofilms from Rio de la Plata beaches with different anthropogenic impacts. Several environmental parameters were measured and bacterial assemblages were analyzed by 16S-rDNA pyrosequencing. The average OTU found per sample was 527.3 +/- 122.5, showing similar richness and diversity among them. However, sites having the highest and lowest salinity displayed higher bacterial diversity. Assemblages from a site nearby an oil refinery, showing the lowest salinity and oxygen concentration, were clearly distinct from the rest. The weight of this splitting relied on OTUs belonging to Thauera, known by its ability to metabolize aromatic compounds. Our results suggest that intertidal bacterial assemblages would be structured by major estuarine variables such as salinity, and that anthropogenic-induced environmental parameters might also be relevant. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2015	10.1016/j.marpolbul.2014.08.039
May-Collado, LJ; Kilpatrick, CW; Agnarsson, I	Mammals from down under: a multi-gene species-level phylogeny of marsupial mammals (Mammalia, Metatheria)	PEERJ	Marsupials or metatherians are a group of mammals that are distinct in giving birth to young at early stages of development and in having a prolonged investment in lactation. The group consists of nearly 350 extant species, including kangaroos, koala, possums, and their relatives. Marsupials are an old lineage thought to have diverged from early therian mammals some 160 million years ago in the Jurassic, and have a remarkable evolutionary and biogeographical history, with extant species restricted to the Americas, mostly South America, and to Australasia. Although the group has been the subject of decades of phylogenetic research, the marsupial tree of life remains controversial, with most studies focusing on only a fraction of the species diversity within the infraclass. Here we present the first Methaterian species-level phylogeny to include 80% of the extant marsupial species and five nuclear and five mitochondrial markers obtained from Genbank and a recently published retroposon matrix. Our primary goal is to provide a summary phylogeny that will serve as a tool for comparative research. We evaluate the extent to which the phylogeny recovers current phylogenetic knowledge based on the recovery of benchmark clades from prior studies-unambiguously supported key clades and undisputed traditional taxonomic groups. The Bayesian phylogenetic analyses recovered nearly all benchmark clades but failed to find support for the suborder Phalagiformes. The most significant difference with previous published topologies is the support for Australidelphia as a group containing Microbiotheriidae, nested within American marsupials. However, a likelihood ratio test shows that alternative topologies with monophyletic Australidelphia and Ameridelphia are not significantly different than the preferred tree. Although further data are needed to solidify understanding of Methateria phylogeny, the new phylogenetic hypothesis provided here offers a well resolved and detailed tool for comparative analyses, covering the majority of the known species richness of the group.	2015	10.7717/peerj.805
Ding, X; Peng, XJ; Jin, BS; Xiao, M; Chen, JK; Li, B; Fang, CM; Nie, M	Spatial distribution of bacterial communities driven by multiple environmental factors in a beach wetland of the largest freshwater lake in China	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	The spatial distributions of bacterial communities may be driven by multiple environmental factors. Thus, understanding the relationships between bacterial distribution and environmental factors is critical for understanding wetland stability and the functioning of freshwater lakes. However, little research on the bacterial communities in deep sediment layers exists. In this study, thirty clone libraries of 16S rRNA were constructed from a beach wetland of the Poyang Lake along both horizontal (distance to the water-land junction) and vertical (sediment depth) gradients to assess the effects of sediment properties on bacterial community structure and diversity. Our results showed that bacterial diversity increased along the horizontal gradient and decreased along the vertical gradient. The heterogeneous sediment properties along gradients substantially affected the dominant bacterial groups at the phylum and species levels. For example, the NH4+ concentration decreased with increasing depth, which was positively correlated with the relative abundance of Alphaproteobacteria. The changes in bacterial diversity and dominant bacterial groups showed that the top layer had a different bacterial community structure than the deeper layers. Principal component analysis revealed that both gradients, not each gradient independently, contributed to the shift in the bacterial community structure. A multiple linear regression model explained the changes in bacterial diversity and richness along the depth and distance gradients. Overall, our results suggest that spatial gradients associated with sediment properties shaped the bacterial communities in the Poyang Lake beach wetland.	2015	10.3389/fmicb.2015.00129
Hughes, KA; Cowan, DA; Wilmotte, A	Protection of Antarctic microbial communities - out of sight, out of mind	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Recent advances in molecular biology techniques have shown the presence of diverse microbial communities and endemic species in Antarctica. Endemic microbes may be a potential source of novel biotechnologically important compounds, including, for example, new antibiotics. Thus, the scientific and biotechnological value of Antarctic terrestrial microbial habitats can be compromised by human visitation to a greater extent than previously realized. The ever-increasing human footprint in Antarctica makes consideration of this topic more pressing, as the number of locations known to be pristine habitats, where increasingly sophisticated cutting-edge research techniques may be used to their full potential, declines. Examination of the Protected Areas system of the Antarctic Treaty shows that microbial habitats are generally poorly protected. No other continent on Earth is dominated to the same degree by microbial species, and real opportunities exist to develop new ways of conceptualizing and implementing conservation of microbial biogeography on a continental scale. Here we highlight potential threats both to the conservation of terrestrial microbial ecosystems, and to future scientific research requiring their study.	2015	10.3389/fmicb.2015.00151
Forster, D; Bittner, L; Karkar, S; Dunthorn, M; Romac, S; Audic, S; Lopez, P; Stoeck, T; Bapteste, E	Testing ecological theories with sequence similarity networks: marine ciliates exhibit similar geographic dispersal patterns as multicellular organisms	BMC BIOLOGY	Background: High-throughput sequencing technologies are lifting major limitations to molecular-based ecological studies of eukaryotic microbial diversity, but analyses of the resulting millions of short sequences remain a major bottleneck for these approaches. Here, we introduce the analytical and statistical framework of sequence similarity networks, increasingly used in evolutionary studies and graph theory, into the field of ecology to analyze novel pyrosequenced V4 small subunit rDNA (SSU-rDNA) sequence data sets in the context of previous studies, including SSU-rDNA Sanger sequence data from cultured ciliates and from previous environmental diversity inventories. Results: Our broadly applicable protocol quantified the progress in the description of genetic diversity of ciliates by environmental SSU-rDNA surveys, detected a fundamental historical bias in the tendency to recover already known groups in these surveys, and revealed substantial amounts of hidden microbial diversity. Moreover, network measures demonstrated that ciliates are not globally dispersed, but are structured by habitat and geographical location at intermediate geographical scale, as observed for bacteria, plants, and animals. Conclusions: Currently available universal primers used for local in-depth sequencing surveys provide little hope to exhaust the significantly higher ciliate (and most likely microbial) diversity than previously thought. Network analyses such as presented in this study offer a promising way to guide the design of novel primers and to further explore this vast and structured microbial diversity.	2015	10.1186/s12915-015-0125-5
Koberl, M; Dita, M; Martinuz, A; Staver, C; Berg, G	Agroforestry leads to shifts within the gammaproteobacterial microbiome of banana plants cultivated in Central America	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Bananas (Musa spp.) belong to the most important global food commodities, and their cultivation represents the worlds largest monoculture. Although the plant-associated microbiome has substantial influence on plant growth and health, there is a lack of knowledge of the banana microbiome and its influencing factors. We studied the impact of (i) biogeography, and (ii) agroforestry on the banana-associated gammaproteobacterial microbiome analyzing plants grown in smallholder farms in Nicaragua and Costa Rica. Profiles of 16S rRNA genes revealed high abundances of Pseudomonadales, Enterobacteriales, Xanthomonadales, and Legionellales. An extraordinary high diversity of the gammaproteobacterial microbiota was observed within the endophytic microenvironments (endorhiza and pseudostem), which was similar in both countries. Enterobacteria were identified as dominant group of above-ground plant parts (pseudostem and leaves). Neither biogeography nor agroforestry showed a statistically significant impact on the gammaproteobacterial banana microbiome in general. However, indicator species for each microenvironment and country, as well as for plants grown in Coffea intercropping systems with and without agri-silvicultural production of different Fabaceae trees (Inga spp. in Nicaragua and Erythrina poeppigiana in Costa Rica) could be identified. For example, banana plants grown in agroforestry systems were characterized by an increase of potential plant-beneficial bacteria, like Pseudomonas and Stenotrophomonas, and on the other side by a decrease of Erwinia. Hence, this study could show that as a result of legume-based agroforestry the indigenous banana-associated gam maproteobacterial community noticeably shifted.	2015	10.3389/fmicb.2015.00091
Reeve, W; Ardley, J; Tian, R; Eshragi, L; Yoon, JW; Ngamwisetkun, P; Seshadri, R; Ivanova, NN; Kyrpides, NC	A Genomic Encyclopedia of the Root Nodule Bacteria: assessing genetic diversity through a systematic biogeographic survey	STANDARDS IN GENOMIC SCIENCES	Root nodule bacteria are free-living soil bacteria, belonging to diverse genera within the Alphaproteobacteria and Betaproteobacteria, that have the capacity to form nitrogen-fixing symbioses with legumes. The symbiosis is specific and is governed by signaling molecules produced from both host and bacteria. Sequencing of several model RNB genomes has provided valuable insights into the genetic basis of symbiosis. However, the small number of sequenced RNB genomes available does not currently reflect the phylogenetic diversity of RNB, or the variety of mechanisms that lead to symbiosis in different legume hosts. This prevents a broad understanding of symbiotic interactions and the factors that govern the biogeography of host-microbe symbioses. Here, we outline a proposal to expand the number of sequenced RNB strains, which aims to capture this phylogenetic and biogeographic diversity. Through the Vavilov centers of diversity (Proposal ID: 231) and GEBA-RNB (Proposal ID: 882) projects we will sequence 107 RNB strains, isolated from diverse legume hosts in various geographic locations around the world. The nominated strains belong to nine of the 16 currently validly described RNB genera. They include 13 type strains, as well as elite inoculant strains of high commercial importance. These projects will strongly support systematic sequence-based studies of RNB and contribute to our understanding of the effects of biogeography on the evolution of different species of RNB, as well as the mechanisms that determine the specificity and effectiveness of nodulation and symbiotic nitrogen fixation by RNB with diverse legume hosts.	2015	10.1186/1944-3277-10-14
Jiang, XX; Dang, HY; Jiao, NZ	Ubiquity and Diversity of Heterotrophic Bacterial nasA Genes in Diverse Marine Environments	PLOS ONE	Nitrate uptake by heterotrophic bacteria plays an important role in marine N cycling. However, few studies have investigated the diversity of environmental nitrate assimilating bacteria (NAB). In this study, the diversity and biogeographical distribution of NAB in several global oceans and particularly in the western Pacific marginal seas were investigated using both cultivation and culture-independent molecular approaches. Phylogenetic analyses based on 16S rRNA and nasA (encoding the large subunit of the assimilatory nitrate reductase) gene sequences indicated that the cultivable NAB in South China Sea belonged to the alpha-Proteobacteria, gamma-Proteobacteria and CFB (Cytophaga-Flavobacteria-Bacteroides) bacterial groups. In all the environmental samples of the present study, alpha-Proteobacteria, gamma-Proteobacteria and Bacteroidetes were found to be the dominant nasA-harboring bacteria. Almost all of the alpha-Proteobacteria OTUs were classified into three Roseobacter-like groups (I to III). Clone library analysis revealed previously underestimated nasA diversity; e.g. the nasA gene sequences affiliated with beta-Proteobacteria, epsilon-Proteobacteria and Lentisphaerae were observed in the field investigation for the first time, to the best of our knowledge. The geographical and vertical distributions of seawater nasA-harboring bacteria indicated that NAB were highly diverse and ubiquitously distributed in the studied marginal seas and world oceans. Niche adaptation and separation and/or limited dispersal might mediate the NAB composition and community structure in different water bodies. In the shallow-water Kueishantao hydrothermal vent environment, chemolithoautotrophic sulfur-oxidizing bacteria were the primary NAB, indicating a unique nitrate-assimilating community in this extreme environment. In the coastal water of the East China Sea, the relative abundance of Alteromonas and Roseobacter-like nasA gene sequences responded closely to algal blooms, indicating that NAB may be active participants contributing to the bloom dynamics. Our statistical results suggested that salinity, temperature and nitrate may be some of the key environmental factors controlling the composition and dynamics of the marine NAB communities.	2015	10.1371/journal.pone.0117473
Zhang, XM; Liu, W; Zhang, GM; Jiang, L; Han, XG	Mechanisms of soil acidification reducing bacterial diversity	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	A central goal in soil microbial ecology research is to identify the biodiversity patterns and reveal the underlying mechanisms. Long-term soil acidification is known to reduce soil bacterial diversity, but the mechanisms responsible for this pattern have not been well explored. Soil acidification may reduce bacterial richness through ecological filtering (EF). In contrast, two types of processes may promote the maintenance of bacterial richness: species may adapt to the acidic pressure through evolution, and endemic species already adapted to the acidic pressure can colonize the acidified soils through dispersal. To identify the relative contribution of EF and evolution/dispersal (ED), we collected soils with a pH range of 4-7 from different ecosystems, conducted an acidification experiment with a similar pH range in a neutral soil, and proposed a conceptual framework that could distinguish the three potential types of mechanism (neither EF nor ED operate; EF operates alone; ED counteracts some effect of EF). We found that the entire bacterial domain was driven by the third type of mechanism, with ED counteracting about 42.4% (95% confidence interval: 32.7-50.4%) effect of EF. Meanwhile, different bacterial phyla/classes were governed by different types of mechanisms, and the dominant was the third type. Our results highlight the importance of both ecological and evolutionary mechanisms for regulating soil bacterial communities under environmental changes. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2015	10.1016/j.soilbio.2014.11.004
Taketani, RG; Kavamura, VN; Mendes, R; Melo, IS	Functional congruence of rhizosphere microbial communities associated to leguminous tree from Brazilian semiarid region	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY REPORTS	Semiarid environments are characterized by the uneven spread of rain throughout the year. This leads to the establishment of a biota that can go through long periods without rain. In order to understand the dynamics of rhizosphere microbial communities across these contrasting seasons in Caatinga, we used the Ion Torrent platform to sequence the metagenome of the rhizosphere of a native leguminous plant (Mimosa tenuiflora). The annotation indicated that most abundant groups detected were the Actinobacteria and Proteobacteria, and the dominant functional groups were carbohydrate and protein metabolisms, and that in the wet season, the communities carried carbohydrate and amino acid metabolisms. The major differences observed between seasons were higher abundance of genes related to carbohydrate and amino acid metabolisms in the rainy season, indicating that the populations present might be better adapted to a higher abundance of organic matter. Besides, no clear separation of samples was detected based on their taxonomic composition whereas the functional composition indicates that samples from the rain season are more related. Altogether, our results indicate that there is a large functional stability in these communities mostly due to the selection of features that aid the biota to endure the dry season and blossom during rain.	2015	10.1111/1758-2229.12187
Zhu, GB; Zhou, LL; Wang, Y; Wang, SY; Guo, JH; Long, XE; Sun, XB; Jiang, B; Hou, QY; Jetten, MSM; Yin, CQ	Biogeographical distribution of denitrifying anaerobic methane oxidizing bacteria in Chinese wetland ecosystems	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY REPORTS	The discovery of denitrifying anaerobic methane oxidation with nitrite as electron acceptor mediated by CandidatusMethylomirabilis oxyfera connected the biogeochemical carbon and nitrogen cycle in a new way. However, it is important to have a comprehensive understanding about the distribution of M.oxyfera-like bacteria in the terrestrial realm, especially the wetland ecosystems that are known as the largest natural source of atmospheric methane. Here, our molecular evidence demonstrated that a wide geographical distribution of M.oxyfera-like bacteria at oxic/anoxic interfaces of various wetlands (n=91) over the Chinese territory. Intriguingly, the M.oxyfera-like bacteria were detected in some extreme environments, indicating that M.oxyfera-like bacteria occupied a wide range of habitats. Quantitative polymerase chain reaction estimated that the abundance of M.oxyfera-like bacteria ranged from 2.2x10(3) to 2.3x10(7) copiesg(-1) dry soil, and up to around 0.62% of the total number of bacteria. Moreover, the M.oxyfera-like bacteria showed high biodiversity in wetland ecosystems based on the analysis of 462 pmoA and 287 16S rRNA gene sequences. The current study revealed the widespread distribution and biogeography of M.oxyfera-like bacteria in the terrestrial system.	2015	10.1111/1758-2229.12214
Harkins, KM; Stone, AC	Ancient pathogen genomics: insights into timing and adaptation	JOURNAL OF HUMAN EVOLUTION	Disease is a major cause of natural selection affecting human evolution, whether through a sudden pandemic or persistent morbidity and mortality. Recent contributions in the field of ancient pathogen genomics have advanced our understanding of the antiquity and nature of human-pathogen interactions through time. Technical advancements have facilitated the recovery, enrichment, and high-throughput sequencing of pathogen and parasite DNA from archived and archaeological remains. These time-stamped genomes are crucial for calibrating molecular clocks to infer the timing of evolutionary events, while providing finer-grain resolution to phylogenetic reconstructions and complex biogeographical patterns. Additionally, genome scale data allow better identification of substitutions linked to adaptations of the pathogen to their human hosts. As methodology continues to improve, ancient genomes of humans and their diverse microbiomes from a range of eras and archaeological contexts will enable population-level ancient analyses in the near future and a better understanding of their co-evolutionary history. (c) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2015	10.1016/j.jhevol.2014.11.002
Valverde, A; Makhalanyane, TP; Seely, M; Cowan, DA	Cyanobacteria drive community composition and functionality in rock-soil interface communities	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	Most ecological research on hypoliths, significant primary producers in hyperarid deserts, has focused on the diversity of individual groups of microbes (i.e. bacteria). However, microbial communities are inherently complex, and the interactions between cyanobacteria, heterotrophic bacteria, protista and metazoa are likely to be very important for ecosystem functioning. Cyanobacterial and heterotrophic bacterial communities were analysed by pyrosequencing, while metazoan and protistan communities were assessed by T-RFLP analysis. Microbial functionality was estimated using carbon substrate utilization. Cyanobacterial community composition was significant in shaping community structure and function in hypoliths. Ecological network analysis showed that most significant co-occurrences were positive, representing potential synergistic interactions. There were several highly interconnected associations (modules), and specific cyanobacteria were important in driving the modular structure of hypolithic networks. Together, our results suggest that hypolithic cyanobacteria have strong effects on higher trophic levels and ecosystem functioning.	2015	10.1111/mec.13068
Yeh, YC; Peres-Neto, PR; Huang, SW; Lai, YC; Tu, CY; Shiah, FK; Gong, GC; Hsieh, CH	Determinism of bacterial metacommunity dynamics in the southern East China Sea varies depending on hydrography	ECOGRAPHY	Spatial variation of communities composition (metacommunities) results from multiple assembly mechanisms, including environmental filtering and dispersal; however, whether and why the relative importance of the assembly mechanisms in shaping bacterial metacommunity changes through time in marine pelagic systems remains poorly studied. Here, we applied the elements of metacommunity structure framework and the variation partitioning framework to examine whether temporal variation of hydrographic conditions influences bacterioplankton metacommunity dynamics in the southern East China Sea (ECS). The spatiotemporal variation of bacterial communities composition was revealed using 454 pyrosequencing of 16S rDNA. In addition to the whole bacterial community, we analyzed four dominant taxonomic groups (Cyanobacteria, Alphaproteobacteria, Gammaproteobacteria, and Actinobacteria) separately. Our analyses indicate that, considering the whole community level, the determinism of metacommunity structure varied among seasons. When the degree of connectivity was low (December), the metacommunity exhibited random distribution and was explained mainly by the environmental component. However, Clementsian metacommunity was found at intermediate connectivity (May), during which the environmental and spatial predictors were both significant. When connectivity was high (August), a random distribution pattern was found and no significant effect of environmental filtering or dispersal limitation was detected. Nevertheless, when considering different taxonomic groups, the differences in metacommunity dynamics among groups were found. Our results suggest that the driving forces of metacommunity dynamics varied depending on hydrography, as the degrees of environmental heterogeneity and connectivity among habitat patches were determined by circulation pattern. Moreover, mechanisms varied among different taxonomic groups, suggesting that differential dispersal capacity among taxonomic groups should be integrated into community assembly studies.	2015	10.1111/ecog.00986
Echenique-Subiabre, I; Villeneuve, A; Golubic, S; Turquet, J; Humbert, JF; Gugger, M	Influence of local and global environmental parameters on the composition of cyanobacterial mats in a tropical lagoon	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Cyanobacteria-dominated microbial mat communities thrive widely and year round in coral reefs and tropical lagoons, with periodic massive development of benthic blooms. We studied the diversity and spatiotemporal variation of the cyanobacterial dominance in mats of the shallow lagoon of La R,union Island in the Indian Ocean by means of denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis and cloning-sequencing approaches targeting the 16S rRNA gene, combined with macromorphological and micromorphological characterization of corresponding phenotypes. The mat-forming cyanobacteria were highly diversified with at least 67 distinct operational taxonomic units identified in the lagoon, encompassing the entire morphological spectrum of the phylum Cyanobacteria, but with striking dominance of Oscillatoriales and Nostocales. It appeared also that selective pressures acting at different geographical scales have an influence on the structure and composition of these mats dominated by cyanobacteria. First, large changes were observed in their diversity and composition in relation to local changes occurring in their environment. Second, from the data obtained on the richness and composition of the mats and from the comparison with similar studies in the world, tropical mats seem to display wider cyanobacterial richness than in temperate and cold areas. Moreover, these tropical mats share more species with mats in other tropical regions than with those in temperate and cold climatic regions, suggesting that marine cyanobacteria in biofilms and mats display a biogeographic structure.	2015	10.1007/s00248-014-0496-0
Lafleur, JE; Rice, SA	Induction of resistance to S-aureus in an environmental marine biofilm grown in Sydney Harbor, NSW, Australia	WORLD JOURNAL OF MICROBIOLOGY & BIOTECHNOLOGY	The study of environmental biofilms is complicated by the difficulty of working with them under lab conditions. Nonetheless, knowledge of cellular activity and interactions within environmental biofilms could lead to novel biomedical applications. To address this problem we previously proposed a new technique for inducing resistance to Staphylococcus aureus in an intact environmental biofilm. In the current follow-up study we applied the new technique in a biogeographically distinct environment using a different strain of S. aureus. The proposed technique for inducing resistance to S. aureus in an environmental biofilm involves growing the environmental biofilms over several days in media reflecting their natural habitat on agar that contains spent culture supernatant from S. aureus over-night culture. We found in this second study that it was possible to induce resistance to S. aureus in an environmental biofilm from a biogeographically distinct environment, though not in the same way as we had previously observed. Environmental consortia from Sydney Harbor, Australia display an ability to inhibit biofilm formation by S. aureus; only in the case where the environmental biofilms were pretreated with UV radiation was there a difference in activity between environmental consortia grown on plain agar, and that grown on S. aureus agar. Application of the new technique in the current study also differs in that significant killing of cells within an established S. aureus biofilm by environmental consortia grown on S. aureus agar was possible.	2015	10.1007/s11274-014-1787-9
Knight, S; Goddard, MR	Quantifying separation and similarity in a Saccharomyces cerevisiae metapopulation	ISME JOURNAL	Eukaryotic microbes are key ecosystem drivers; however, we have little theory and few data elucidating the processes influencing their observed population patterns. Here we provide an in-depth quantitative analysis of population separation and similarity in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae with the aim of providing a more detailed account of the population processes occurring in microbes. Over 10 000 individual isolates were collected from native plants, vineyards and spontaneous ferments of fruit from six major regions spanning 1000km across New Zealand. From these, hundreds of S. cerevisiae genotypes were obtained, and using a suite of analytical methods we provide comprehensive quantitative estimates for both population structure and rates of gene flow or migration. No genetic differentiation was detected within geographic regions, even between populations inhabiting native forests and vineyards. We do, however, reveal a picture of national population structure at scales above similar to 100km with distinctive populations in the more remote Nelson and Central Otago regions primarily contributing to this. In addition, differential degrees of connectivity between regional populations are observed and correlate with the movement of fruit by the New Zealand wine industry. This suggests some anthropogenic influence on these observed population patterns.	2015	10.1038/ismej.2014.132
Doxey, AC; Kurtz, DA; Lynch, MDJ; Sauder, LA; Neufeld, JD	Aquatic metagenomes implicate Thaumarchaeota in global cobalamin production	ISME JOURNAL	Cobalamin (vitamin B-12) is a complex metabolite and essential cofactor required by many branches of life, including most eukaryotic phytoplankton. Algae and other cobalamin auxotrophs rely on environmental cobalamin supplied from a relatively small set of cobalamin-producing prokaryotic taxa. Although several Bacteria have been implicated in cobalamin biosynthesis and associated with algal symbiosis, the involvement of Archaea in cobalamin production is poorly understood, especially with respect to the Thaumarchaeota. Based on the detection of cobalamin synthesis genes in available thaumarchaeotal genomes, we hypothesized that Thaumarchaeota, which are ubiquitous and abundant in aquatic environments, have an important role in cobalamin biosynthesis within global aquatic ecosystems. To test this hypothesis, we examined cobalamin synthesis genes across sequenced thaumarchaeotal genomes and 430 metagenomes from a diverse range of marine, freshwater and hypersaline environments. Our analysis demonstrates that all available thaumarchaeotal genomes possess cobalamin synthesis genes, predominantly from the anaerobic pathway, suggesting widespread genetic capacity for cobalamin synthesis. Furthermore, although bacterial cobalamin genes dominated most surface marine metagenomes, thaumarchaeotal cobalamin genes dominated metagenomes from polar marine environments, increased with depth in marine water columns, and displayed seasonality, with increased winter abundance observed in time-series datasets (e.g., L4 surface water in the English Channel). Our results also suggest niche partitioning between thaumarchaeotal and cyanobacterial ribosomal and cobalamin synthesis genes across all metagenomic datasets analyzed. These results provide strong evidence for specific biogeographical distributions of thaumarchaeotal cobalamin genes, expanding our understanding of the global biogeochemical roles played by Thaumarchaeota in aquatic environments.	2015	10.1038/ismej.2014.142
Read, DS; Gweon, HS; Bowes, MJ; Newbold, LK; Field, D; Bailey, MJ; Griffiths, RI	Catchment-scale biogeography of riverine bacterioplankton	ISME JOURNAL	Lotic ecosystems such as rivers and streams are unique in that they represent a continuum of both space and time during the transition from headwaters to the river mouth. As microbes have very different controls over their ecology, distribution and dispersion compared with macrobiota, we wished to explore biogeographical patterns within a river catchment and uncover the major drivers structuring bacterioplankton communities. Water samples collected across the River Thames Basin, UK, covering the transition from headwater tributaries to the lower reaches of the main river channel were characterised using 16S rRNA gene pyrosequencing. This approach revealed an ecological succession in the bacterial community composition along the river continuum, moving from a community dominated by Bacteroidetes in the headwaters to Actinobacteria-dominated downstream. Location of the sampling point in the river network (measured as the cumulative water channel distance upstream) was found to be the most predictive spatial feature; inferring that ecological processes pertaining to temporal community succession are of prime importance in driving the assemblages of riverine bacterioplankton communities. A decrease in bacterial activity rates and an increase in the abundance of low nucleic acid bacteria relative to high nucleic acid bacteria were found to correspond with these downstream changes in community structure, suggesting corresponding functional changes. Our findings show that bacterial communities across the Thames basin exhibit an ecological succession along the river continuum, and that this is primarily driven by water residence time rather than the physico-chemical status of the river.	2015	10.1038/ismej.2014.166
Staley, C; Gould, TJ; Wang, P; Phillips, J; Cotner, JB; Sadowsky, MJ	Species sorting and seasonal dynamics primarily shape bacterial communities in the Upper Mississippi River	SCIENCE OF THE TOTAL ENVIRONMENT	Bacterial community structure (BCS) in freshwater ecosystems varies seasonally and due to physicochemical gradients, but metacommunity structure of a major river remains understudied. Here we characterize the BCS along the Mississippi River and contributing rivers in Minnesota over three years using Illumina next-generation sequencing, to determine how changes in environmental conditions as well as inputs from surrounding land and confluences impacted community structure. Contributions of sediment to water microbial diversity were also evaluated. Long-term variation in community membership was observed, and significant shifts in relative abundances of major freshwater taxa, including alpha-Proteobacteria, Burkholderiales, and Actinomycetales, were observed due to temporal and spatial variations. Environmental parameters (e.g. temperature, rainfall, and nutrient concentrations) primarily contributed to differences in phyla abundances (88% of variance), with minimal influence from spatial distance alone (<1% of variance). Furthermore, an annually-recurrent BCS was observed in late summer, further suggesting that seasonal dynamics strongly influence community composition. Sediment communities differed from those in the water, but contributed up to 50% to community composition in the water column. Among water sampling sites, 34% showed significant variability in BCS of replicate samples indicating variability among riverine communities due to heterogeneity in the water column. Results of this study highlight the need for a better understanding of spatial and temporal variations in riverine bacterial diversity associated with physicochemical gradients and reveal how communities in sediments, and potentially other environmental reservoirs, impact waterborne BCS. Techniques used in this study may prove useful to determine sources of microbes from sediments and soils to waterways, which will facilitate best management practices and total maximum daily load determinations. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2015	10.1016/j.scitotenv.2014.10.012
Alguacil, MM; Torrecillas, E; Lozano, Z; Roldan, A	Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi communities in a coral cay system (Morrocoy, Venezuela) and their relationships with environmental variables	SCIENCE OF THE TOTAL ENVIRONMENT	Knowledge of the natural diversity of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) and understanding of their biogeographical patterns and what drive them might help to the maintenance and preservation of ecosystems under a changing environment. The objective of this study was to evaluate the contribution of different environmental factors to the determination of the composition of AMF assemblages in representative sites within the Morrocoy National Park (Venezuela). The community structure of the AMF under the canopy of Coccoloba uvifera was investigated in four cays (Borracho, Muerto, Peraza, and Paiclas) and one mainland location (Las Luisas). Based on partial sequences of the nuclear small subunit ribosomal DNA gene, the AM fungi in soil samples were divided into 31 operational taxonomic units, grouped in eight families. The canonical correspondence analysis showed that environmental factors related to insularity (the mean annual rainfall, the distance to the mainland coast, and the cay land area) and a soil property related to biological activity (the total carbohydrate content) were significantly related to the distribution of the AMF communities. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2015	10.1016/j.scitotenv.2014.10.030
Choi, DH; Park, KT; An, SM; Lee, K; Cho, JC; Lee, JH; Kim, D; Jeon, D; Noh, JH	Pyrosequencing Revealed SAR116 Clade as Dominant dddP-Containing Bacteria in Oligotrophic NW Pacific Ocean	PLOS ONE	Dimethyl sulfide (DMS) is a climatically active gas released into the atmosphere from oceans. It is produced mainly by bacterial enzymatic cleavage of dimethylsulfoniopropionate (DMSP), and six DMSP lyases have been identified to date. To determine the biogeographical distribution of bacteria relevant to DMS production, we investigated the diversity of dddP-the most abundant DMS-producing gene-in the northwestern Pacific Ocean using newly developed primers and the pyrosequencing method. Consistent with previous studies, the major dddP-containing bacteria in coastal areas were those belonging to the Roseobacter clade. However, genotypes closely related to the SAR116 group were found to represent a large portion of dddP-containing bacteria in the surface waters of the oligotrophic ocean. The addition of DMSP to a culture of the SAR116 strain Candidatus Puniceispirillum marinum IMCC1322 resulted in the production of DMS and upregulated expression of the dddP gene. Considering the large area of oligotrophic water and the wide distribution of the SAR116 group in oceans worldwide, we propose that these bacteria may play an important role in oceanic DMS production and biogeochemical sulfur cycles, especially via bacteriamediated DMSP degradation.	2015	10.1371/journal.pone.0116271
Charlop-Powers, Z; Owen, JG; Reddy, BVB; Ternei, M; Guimaraes, DO; de Frias, UA; Pupo, MT; Seepe, P; Feng, ZY; Brady, SF	Global Biogeographic Sampling of Bacterial Secondary Metabolism	ELIFE	Recent bacterial (meta) genome sequencing efforts suggest the existence of an enormous untapped reservoir of natural-product-encoding biosynthetic gene clusters in the environment. Here we use the pyrosequencing of PCR amplicons derived from both nonribosomal peptide adenylation domains and polyketide ketosynthase domains to compare biosynthetic diversity in soil microbiomes from around the globe. We see large differences in domain populations from all except the most proximal and biome-similar samples, suggesting that most microbiomes will encode largely distinct collections of bacterial secondary metabolites. Our data indicate a correlation between two factors, geographic distance and biome-type, and the biosynthetic diversity found in soil environments. By assigning reads to known gene clusters we identify hotspots of biomedically relevant biosynthetic diversity. These observations not only provide new insights into the natural world, they also provide a road map for guiding future natural products discovery efforts.	2015	10.7554/eLife.05048
Pedersen, MW; Overballe-Petersen, S; Ermini, L; Sarkissian, CD; Haile, J; Hellstrom, M; Spens, J; Thomsen, PF; Bohmann, K; Cappellini, E; Schnell, IB; Wales, NA; Caroe, C; Campos, PF; Schmidt, AMZ; Gilbert, MTP; Hansen, AJ; Orlando, L; Willerslev, E	Ancient and modern environmental DNA	PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY B-BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES	DNA obtained from environmental samples such as sediments, ice or water (environmental DNA, eDNA), represents an important source of information on past and present biodiversity. It has revealed an ancient forest in Greenland, extended by several thousand years the survival dates for mainland woolly mammoth in Alaska, and pushed back the dates for spruce survival in Scandinavian ice-free refugia during the last glaciation. More recently, eDNA was used to uncover the past 50 000 years of vegetation history in the Arctic, revealing massive vegetation turnover at the Pleistocene/Holocene transition, with implications for the extinction of megafauna. Furthermore, eDNA can reflect the biodiversity of extant flora and fauna, both qualitatively and quantitatively, allowing detection of rare species. As such, trace studies of plant and vertebrate DNA in the environment have revolutionized our knowledge of biogeography. However, the approach remains marred by biases related to DNA behaviour in environmental settings, incomplete reference databases and false positive results due to contamination. We provide a review of the field.	2015	10.1098/rstb.2013.0383
Stellato, G; La Storia, A; Cirillo, T; Ercolini, D	Bacterial biogeographical patterns in a cooking center for hospital foodservice	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF FOOD MICROBIOLOGY	Microbial contamination in foodservice environments plays a fundamental role in food quality and safety. In such environments the composition of the microbiota is influenced by the characteristics of the specific surfaces and by food handling and processing and a resident microbiota may be present in each site. In this study, the bacterial biogeographical patterns in a hospital cooking center was studied by 16S rRNA-based culture-independent high-throughput amplicon sequencing in order to provide a comprehensive mapping of the surfaces and tools that come in contact with foods during preparation. Across all area, surface swab-samples from work surfaces of different zones were taken: food pre-processing rooms (dedicated to fish, vegetables, and red and white meat), storage room and kitchen. The microbiota of environmental swabs was very complex, including more than 500 operational taxonomic units (OTUs) with extremely variable relative abundances (0.02-99%) depending on the species. A core microbiota was found that was common to more than 70% of the samples analyzed and that included microbial species that were common across all areas such as Acinetobacter, Chryseobacterium, Moraxellaceae, and Alicyclobacillus, although their abundances were below 10% of the microbiota. Some surfaces were contaminated by high levels of either Pseudomonas, Psychrobacter, Paracoccus, or Kocuria. However, beta diversity analysis showed that, based on the composition of the microbiota, the environmental samples grouped according to the sampling time but not according to the specific area of sampling except for the case of samples from the vegetable pre-processing room that showed a higher level of similarity. The cleaning procedures can have a very strong impact on the spatial distribution of the microbial communities, as the use of the same cleaning tools can be even a possible vector of bacterial diffusion. Most of the microbial taxa found are not those commonly found in food as spoilers or hazardous bacteria, which indicates that food and storage conditions can be very selective in the growth of possible contaminants. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2015	10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2014.10.018
Buttigieg, PL; Ramette, A	Biogeographic patterns of bacterial microdiversity in Arctic deep-sea sediments(HAUSGARTEN, Fram Strait)	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Marine bacteria colonizing deep-sea sediments beneath the Arctic ocean, a rapidly changing ecosystem, have been shown to exhibit significant biogeographic patterns along transects spanning tens of kilometers and across water depths of several thousand meters (Jacob etal., 2013). Jacob etal. (2013) adopted what has become a classical view of microbial diversity based on operational taxonomic units clustered at the 97% sequence identity level of the 16S rRNA gene and observed a very large microbial community replacement at the HAUSGARTEN Long Term Ecological Research station (Eastern Fram Strait). Here, we revisited these data using the oligotyping approach and aimed to obtain new insight into ecological and biogeographic patterns associated with bacterial microdiversity in marine sediments. We also assessed the level of concordance of these insights with previously obtained results. Variation in oligotype dispersal range, relative abundance, co-occurrence, and taxonomic identity were related to environmental parameters such as water depth, biomass, and sedimentary pigment concentration. This study assesses ecological implications of the new microdiversity-based technique using a well-characterized dataset of high relevance for global change biology.	2015	10.3389/fmicb.2014.00660
De Baets, K; Dentzien-Dias, P; Upeniece, I; Verneau, O; Donoghue, PCJ	Constraining the Deep Origin of Parasitic Flatworms and Host-Interactions with Fossil Evidence	FOSSIL PARASITES	Novel fossil discoveries have contributed to our understanding of the evolutionary appearance of parasitism in flatworms. Furthermore, genetic analyses with greater coverage have shifted our views on the coevolution of parasitic flatworms and their hosts. The putative record of parasitic flatworms is consistent with extant host associations and so can be used to put constraints on the evolutionary origin of the parasites themselves. The future lies in new molecular clock analyses combined with additional discoveries of exceptionally preserved flatworms associated with hosts and coprolites. Besides direct evidence, the host fossil record and biogeography have the potential to constrain their evolutionary history, albeit with caution needed to avoid circularity, and a need for calibrations to be implemented in the most conservative way. This might result in imprecise, but accurate divergence estimates for the evolution of parasitic flatworms.	2015	10.1016/bs.apar.2015.06.002
Cottrell, MT; del Giorgio, PA; Kirchman, DL	Biogeography of globally distributed bacteria in temperate and boreal Quebec lakes as revealed by tag pyrosequencing of 16S rRNA genes	AQUATIC MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Sequence data of 16S rRNA genes reveal that many bacterial taxa are found in all freshwater lakes. However, the global data set is highly weighted toward lakes in temperate regions of North America and northern Europe, and it is unclear whether bacterial communities in other northern latitude environments, such as boreal lakes in North America, differ from those in lower latitudes. This study used pyrosequences of the 16S rRNA gene to examine bacterial diversity in 37 temperate and boreal lakes in Quebec, Canada, over the course of a year. Nearly all taxa in the global data set were also found in the Quebec lakes, but relative abundances differed. Community structure varied geographically and seasonally for 97% similar operational taxonomic units (OTUs) but not at lower levels of similarity. Seasonal shifts in community structure were larger in temperate lakes than in boreal lakes, and community structure differed between boreal and temperate lakes in summer but not in winter. The differences in taxonomic composition between temperate and boreal lakes appear to be driven mostly by environmental processes influencing community structure of temperate lakes in summer. Our results provide a baseline for interpreting impacts of climate change in boreal biomes where community structure is driven by environmental factors.	2015	10.3354/ame01776
Koskella, B; Vos, M	Adaptation in Natural Microbial Populations	ANNUAL REVIEW OF ECOLOGY, EVOLUTION, AND SYSTEMATICS, VOL 46	Although their diversity greatly exceeds that of plants and animals, microbial organisms have historically received less attention in ecology and evolutionary biology research. This knowledge gap is rapidly closing, owing to recent technological advances and an increasing appreciation for the role microbes play in shaping ecosystems and human health. In this review, we examine when and how the process and patterns of bacterial adaptation might fundamentally differ from those of macrobes, highlight methods used to measure adaptation in natural microbial populations, and discuss the importance of examining bacterial adaptation across multiple scales. We emphasize the need to consider the scales of adaptation as continua, in which the genetic makeup of bacteria blur boundaries between populations, species, and communities and with them concepts of ecological and evolutionary time. Finally, we examine current directions of the field as we move beyond the stamp-collecting phase and toward a better understanding of microbial adaptation in nature.	2015	10.1146/annurev-ecolsys-112414-054458
Edlund, A; Santiago-Rodriguez, TM; Boehm, TK; Pride, DT	Bacteriophage and their potential roles in the human oral cavity	JOURNAL OF ORAL MICROBIOLOGY	The human oral cavity provides the perfect portal of entry for viruses and bacteria in the environment to access new hosts. Hence, the oral cavity is one of the most densely populated habitats of the human body containing some 6 billion bacteria and potentially 35 times that many viruses. The role of these viral communities remains unclear; however, many are bacteriophage that may have active roles in shaping the ecology of oral bacterial communities. Other implications for the presence of such vast oral phage communities include accelerating the molecular diversity of their bacterial hosts as both host and phage mutate to gain evolutionary advantages. Additional roles include the acquisitions of new gene functions through lysogenic conversions that may provide selective advantages to host bacteria in response to antibiotics or other types of disturbances, and protection of the human host from invading pathogens by binding to and preventing pathogens from crossing oral mucosal barriers. Recent evidence suggests that phage may be more involved in periodontal diseases than were previously thought, as their compositions in the subgingival crevice in moderate to severe periodontitis are known to be significantly altered. However, it is unclear to what extent they contribute to dysbiosis or the transition of the microbial community into a state promoting oral disease. Bacteriophage communities are distinct in saliva compared to sub- and supragingival areas, suggesting that different oral biogeographic niches have unique phage ecology shaping their bacterial biota. In this review, we summarize what is known about phage communities in the oral cavity, the possible contributions of phage in shaping oral bacterial ecology, and the risks to public health oral phage may pose through their potential to spread antibiotic resistance gene functions to close contacts.	2015	10.3402/jom.v7.27423
Kaya, M; Erdogan, S	Testing the habitat selectivity of bdelloid rotifers in a restricted area	TURKISH JOURNAL OF ZOOLOGY	The biodiversity of microorganisms is still not understood exactly because they are very small and diverse and it requires an intensive effort to examine them. In this study, we tested whether there were differences in species richness and species composition among six sampled habitats to understand the biodiversity pattern of bdelloid rotifers. To test habitat preferences of bdelloid rotifers, 90 samples were collected from six different habitats (soil, tree bark, one species of lichen (Lecanora muralis), and three species of moss (Grimmia pulvinata, Homalothecium lutescens, and Tortula ruralis)) in the village of Tasci in December 2008. We performed an analysis of variance (ANOVA) followed by a Tukey honestly significant difference (HSD) test to understand whether species richness was significantly different among the six habitats. Analysis of similarity (ANOSIM) was used to test whether differences in species composition between habitats were higher than those between samples within each habitat. The results showed that species richness in each sample was significantly different among habitats (ANOVA: F-5,F-84 = 19.3, P < 0.0001) according to the Tukey HSD test. Differences in species composition between samples between habitats were significantly higher than differences in species composition between samples within each habitat (ANOSIM: R = 0.40, P = 0.001).	2015	10.3906/zoo-1410-46
Chow, CET; Suttle, CA	Biogeography of Viruses in the Sea	ANNUAL REVIEW OF VIROLOGY, VOL 2	Viral ecology is a rapidly progressing area of research, as molecular methods have improved significantly for targeted research on specific populations and whole communities. To interpret and synthesize global viral diversity and distribution, it is feasible to assess whether macroecology concepts can apply to marine viruses. We review how viral and host life history and physical properties can influence viral distribution in light of biogeography and metacommunity ecology paradigms. We highlight analytical approaches that can be applied to emerging global data sets and meta-analyses to identify individual taxa with global influence and drivers of emergent properties that influence microbial community structure by drawing on examples across the spectrum of viral taxa, from RNA to ssDNA and dsDNA viruses.	2015	10.1146/annurev-virology-031413-085540
Espinosa-Asuar, L; Escalante, AE; Gasca-Pineda, J; Blaz, J; Pena, L; Eguiarte, LE; Souza, V	Aquatic bacterial assemblage structure in Pozas Azules, Cuatro Cienegas Basin, Mexico: Deterministic vs. stochastic processes	INTERNATIONAL MICROBIOLOGY	The aim of this study was to determine the contributions of stochastic vs. deterministic processes in the distribution of microbial diversity in four ponds (Pozas Azules) within a temporally stable aquatic system in the Cuatro Cienegas Basin, State of Coahuila, Mexico. A sampling strategy for sites that were geographically delimited and had low environmental variation was applied to avoid obscuring distance effects. Aquatic bacterial diversity was characterized following a culture-independent approach (16S sequencing of clone libraries). The results showed a correlation between bacterial beta diversity (1-Sorensen) and geographic distance (distance decay of similarity), which indicated the influence of stochastic processes related to dispersion in the assembly of the ponds bacterial communities. Our findings are the first to show the influence of dispersal limitation in the prokaryotic diversity distribution of Cuatro Cienegas Basin.	2015	10.2436/20.1501.01.240
Hansen, E; Andersen, JH	Screening for Marine Natural Products with Potential as Chemotherapeutics for Acute Myeloid Leukemia	CURRENT PHARMACEUTICAL BIOTECHNOLOGY	Nature is an important source for anti-cancer therapeutics, and nearly half of the currently marketed cancer drugs are derived from natural products. Most of the therapeutic natural products are derived from terrestrial sources, such as paclitaxel, vincristine, epothilones, doxorubicin, etoposide and camptothecin. However, the oceans have received growing interest as a source for new useful bioactive compounds, and there are currently several drugs derived from marine natural products for the treatment of cancer on the market. The current recommended chemotherapy of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is founded on cytarabine, a molecule derived from a natural product isolated from a marine sponge. However, in order to increase the efficiency of the chemotherapy used in the treatment of AML, it is necessary to develop more targeted drugs with less pronounced side effects. In this review, we argue that marine natural products have many of the desired properties of such a drug, and that prefractionated extract libraries of marine plants, animals and microorganisms should be a part of the screening efforts for new AML chemotherapeutics.	2015	10.2174/1389201016666150817095537
Portail, M; Olu, K; Escobar-Briones, E; Caprais, JC; Menot, L; Waeles, M; Cruaud, P; Sarradin, PM; Godfroy, A; Sarrazin, J	Comparative study of vent and seep macrofaunal communities in the Guaymas Basin	BIOGEOSCIENCES	Understanding the ecological processes and connectivity of chemosynthetic deep-sea ecosystems requires comparative studies. In the Guaymas Basin (Gulf of California, Mexico), the presence of seeps and vents in the absence of a biogeographic barrier, and comparable sedimentary settings and depths offers a unique opportunity to assess the role of ecosystem-specific environmental conditions on macrofaunal communities. Six seep and four vent assemblages were studied, three of which were characterised by common major foundation taxa: vesicomyid bivalves, siboglinid tubeworms and microbial mats. Macrofaunal community structure at the family level showed that density, diversity and composition patterns were primarily shaped by seep- and vent-common abiotic factors including methane and hydrogen sulfide concentrations, whereas vent environmental specificities (higher temperature, higher metal concentrations and lower pH) were not significant. The type of substratum and the heterogeneity provided by foundation species were identified as additional structuring factors and their roles were found to vary according to fluid regimes. At the family level, seep and vent similarity reached at least 58 %. All vent families were found at seeps and each seep-specific family displayed low relative abundances (< 5 %). Moreover, 85% of the identified species among dominant families were shared between seep and vent ecosystems. This study provides further support to the hypothesis of continuity among deep-sea seep and vent ecosystems.	2015	10.5194/bg-12-5455-2015
Teittinen, A; Soininen, J	Testing the theory of island biogeography for microorganisms-patterns for spring diatoms	AQUATIC MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	According to the theory of island biogeography, species richness in island-like systems is determined by ecosystem size and isolation. However, there is only very little information about how this theory applies to microorganisms. The aim of this study was to examine the effects of local physicochemical variables, land use and geographical factors on diatom species richness and community composition in 50 boreal springs in Finland, and to test for species-area and species-isolation relationships. There were nonsignificant relationships between species richness and spring area and isolation. The best approximating generalized linear model suggested that variation in species richness was related to several local resource and stress factors such as water conductivity, pH, colour, temperature and nutrient concentrations. Based on Mantel tests, diatom community similarity was significantly correlated with environmental distance, but not with geographical distance. Analysis of similarities further showed that community compositions did not differ significantly between ecoregions. These results suggest that spatial factors are of minor importance for spring diatoms compared with environmental filtering. Patterns in spring diatoms do not concur with the theory of island biogeography as we found no support for species-area or species-isolation relationships. At these spatial scales, dispersal limitation does not seem to influence diatom communities.	2015	10.3354/ame01759
Fujii, M; Hirao, T; Kojima, H; Fukui, M	Inter-taxonomic differences in bacterioplankton community assembly in oligotrophic mountain lakes of east Japan	AQUATIC MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	We examined bacterioplankton community composition (BCC) in 27 oligotrophic freshwater lakes with similar environments, located in the mountainous regions of eastern Japan. We determined BCC by the relative sequence abundance of each taxon using polymerase chain reaction-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (PCR-DGGE) targeting the 16S rRNA gene region. Using multiple regression analyses, we investigated the relative importance of environmental and geospatial processes on community assembly of the general bacterioplankton, as well as of the taxonomic groups Betaproteobacteria and Bacteroidetes. Both processes had significant relationships with community assembly. In particular, environmental processes were relevant, however small the variations among study sites. Community composition of Betaproteobacteria was mainly correlated with environmental factors, whereas that of Bacteroidetes was primarily associated with geospatial variables, such as the presence of Tsugaru Strait as a geographic barrier. Thus, inter-taxonomic differences are significant in assessing relationships of environmental and geospatial processes with freshwater BCC. Finally, our study provides evidence that biogeographic events are potentially significant for the distribution and diversity of microorganisms, as is the case with macroorganisms. These perspectives should be taken into consideration in order to fully understand bacterial community assembly.	2015	10.3354/ame01760
Adamczuk, M; Zaleski, P; Dziewit, L; Wolinowska, R; Nieckarz, M; Wawrzyniak, P; Kieryl, P; Plucienniczak, A; Bartosik, D	Diversity and Global Distribution of IncL/M Plasmids Enabling Horizontal Dissemination of beta-Lactam Resistance Genes among the Enterobacteriaceae	BIOMED RESEARCH INTERNATIONAL	Antibiotic resistance determinants are frequently associated with plasmids and other mobile genetic elements, which simplifies their horizontal transmission. Several groups of plasmids (including replicons of the IncL/M incompatibility group) were found to play an important role in the dissemination of resistance genes encoding beta-lactamases. The IncL/M plasmids are large, broad host range, and self-transmissible replicons. We have identified and characterized two novel members of this group: pARM26 (isolated from bacteria inhabiting activated sludge from a wastewater treatment plant) and pIGT15 (originating from a clinical strain of Escherichia coli). This instigated a detailed comparative analysis of all available sequences of IncL/M plasmids encoding beta-lactamases. The core genome of these plasmids is comprised of 20 genes with conserved synteny. Phylogenetic analyses of these core genes allowed clustering of the plasmids into four separate groups, which reflect their antibiotic resistance profiles. Examination of the biogeography of the IncL/M plasmids revealed that they are most frequently found in bacteria of the family Enterobacteriaceae originating from the Mediterranean region and Western Europe and that they are able to persist in various ecological niches even in the absence of direct antibiotic selection pressure.	2015	10.1155/2015/414681
Inderjit	Introduction to the Special Issue: The role of soil microbial-driven belowground processes in mediating exotic plant invasions	AOB PLANTS	Soil microbial communities are one of the multiple factors that facilitate or resist plant invasion. Regional and biogeographic studies help to determine how soil communities and the processes mediated by soil microbes are linked to other mechanisms of invasion. Both the success of plant invasions and their impacts are profoundly influenced by a wide range of soil communities and the soil processes mediated by them. With an aim to better understand the mechanisms responsible for the soil community-driven routes, a special issue of AoB PLANTS was conceived. I hope that the range of papers included in the special issue will reveal some of the complexities in soil community-mediated plant invasion.	2015	10.1093/aobpla/plv052
Walsh, EA; Smith, DC; Sogin, ML; DHondt, S	Bacterial and archaeal biogeography of the deep chlorophyll maximum in the South Pacific Gyre	AQUATIC MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	We used 16S rRNA gene tag pyro sequencing to examine the biogeography of bacterial and archaeal community composition in the deep chlorophyll maximum (DCM) of the South Pacific Gyre (SPG), the largest and most oligotrophic region of the world ocean. Dominant DCM bacterial taxa, including Prochlorococcus, SAR11, SAR406, and SAR86, were present at each sampled site in similar proportions, although the sites are separated by thousands of kilometers and up to 100 m in water depth. Marine Group II (MGII) and MGIII Euryarcheota dominated the archaeal assemblages of the DCM at these sites. Bray-Curtis indices show that assemblage composition of these sites is > 70% similar for Bacteria and > 80% similar for Archaea. Despite these similarities, communities of the central SPG, the western SPG margin, and the southern SPG margin are distinguishable from each other. Comparison of our bacterial results to samples from the DCM of the North Pacific Gyre (NPG) and the relatively nutrient-and chlorophyll-rich Equatorial Pacific (EQP) shows that DCM bacterial assemblage composition is > 50% similar throughout all 3 regions. Nonetheless, the SPG, NPG, and EQP assemblages are statistically distinct from each other (ANOSIM, p = 0.001), with the communities of the 2 gyres resembling each other more closely than either resembles the EQP community (which lives geographically between them). Variation in assemblage composition correlates with sea-surface chlorophyll concentration (r(2) = 0.71, p < 0.003). This study demonstrates that the DCM horizons of different oceanic regions harbor statistically distinct communities that are consistent within regions for thousands of kilometers.	2015	10.3354/ame01746
Anderson, RE; Sogin, ML; Baross, JA	Biogeography and ecology of the rare and abundant microbial lineages in deep-sea hydrothermal vents	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Environmental gradients generate countless ecological niches in deep-sea hydrothermal vent systems, which foster diverse microbial communities. The majority of distinct microbial lineages in these communities occur in very low abundance. However, the ecological role and distribution of rare and abundant lineages, particularly in deep, hot subsurface environments, remain unclear. Here, we use 16S rRNA tag sequencing to describe biogeographic patterning and microbial community structure of both rare and abundant archaea and bacteria in hydrothermal vent systems. We show that while rare archaeal lineages and almost all bacterial lineages displayed geographically restricted community structuring patterns, the abundant lineages of archaeal communities displayed a much more cosmopolitan distribution. Finally, analysis of one high-volume, high-temperature fluid sample representative of the deep hot biosphere described a unique microbial community that differed from microbial populations in diffuse flow fluid or sulfide samples, yet the rare thermophilic archaeal groups showed similarities to those that occur in sulfides. These results suggest that while most archaeal and bacterial lineages in vents are rare and display a highly regional distribution, a small percentage of lineages, particularly within the archaeal domain, are successful at widespread dispersal and colonization.	2015	10.1093/femsec/fiu016
Ferjani, R; Marasco, R; Rolli, E; Cherif, H; Cherif, A; Gtari, M; Boudabous, A; Daffonchio, D; Ouzari, HI	The Date Palm Tree Rhizosphere Is a Niche for Plant Growth Promoting Bacteria in the Oasis Ecosystem	BIOMED RESEARCH INTERNATIONAL	In arid ecosystems environmental factors such as geoclimatic conditions and agricultural practices are of major importance in shaping the diversity and functionality of plant-associated bacterial communities. Assessing the influence of such factors is a key to understand (i) the driving forces determining the shape of root-associated bacterial communities and (ii) the plant growth promoting (PGP) services they provide. Desert oasis environment was chosen as model ecosystem where agriculture is possible by the microclimate determined by the date palm cultivation. The bacterial communities in the soil fractions associated with the root system of date palms cultivated in seven oases in Tunisia were assessed by culture-independent and dependent approaches. According to 16S rRNA gene PCR-DGGE fingerprinting, the shapes of the date palm rhizosphere bacterial communities correlate with geoclimatic features along a north-south aridity transect. Despite the fact that the date palm root bacterial community structure was strongly influenced by macroecological factors, the potential rhizosphere services reflected in the PGP traits of isolates screened in vitro were conserved among the different oases. Such services were exerted by the 83% of the screened isolates. The comparable numbers and types of PGP traits indicate their importance in maintaining the plant functional homeostasis despite the different environmental selection pressures.	2015	10.1155/2015/153851
Balzano, S; Abs, E; Leterme, SC	Protist diversity along a salinity gradient in a coastal lagoon	AQUATIC MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	The importance of microbial eukaryotes to aquatic systems has been widely acknowledged in the last decade, and the application of high-throughput sequencing techniques has revealed an astonishing diversity and high proportions of novel taxa. Most studies have focused either on marine or freshwater ecosystems; thus, information on estuarine communities is either incomplete or missing. We assessed the composition of microbial eukaryotes along a South Australian coastal lagoon affected by a broad (7 to 65 PSU) salinity gradient, the Coorong Lagoon. This lagoon extends for over 170 km from the mouth of the River Murray (Murray Mouth) southwards, where the salinity increases up to hypersaline values. We sampled 5 stations during the austral summer and winter and sequenced the amplified V4 region of the 18S rRNA gene using Ion Torrent. Genetic libraries were mostly represented by reads from 5 phyla, with Chlorophyta prevailing in summer, diatoms in winter and Haptophyta in the southernmost sampling sites. In spite of the broad spatial and temporal salinity changes observed, the communities of small eukaryotes clustered in 2 groups reflecting the sample location. Moreover, dissimilarities between samples were unaffected by differences in salinity, but increased with increasing geographic distances. Microbial exchanges from the Coorong Lagoon towards both freshwater and seawater occur via the Murray Mouth and are likely to prevent the formation of communities adapted to local salinity conditions. However, such exchanges likely decrease with increasing distances from the Murray Mouth, resulting in distance-driven eukaryotic communities.	2015	10.3354/ame01740
Sauterey, B; Ward, BA; Follows, MJ; Bowler, C; Claessen, D	When everything is not everywhere but species evolve: an alternative method to model adaptive properties of marine ecosystems	JOURNAL OF PLANKTON RESEARCH	The functional and taxonomic biogeography of marine microbial systems reflects the current state of an evolving system. Current models of marine microbial systems and biogeochemical cycles do not reflect this fundamental organizing principle. Here, we investigate the evolutionary adaptive potential of marine microbial systems under environmental change and introduce explicit Darwinian adaptation into an ocean modelling framework, simulating evolving phytoplankton communities in space and time. To this end, we adopt tools from adaptive dynamics theory, evaluating the fitness of invading mutants over annual timescales, replacing the resident if a fitter mutant arises. Using the evolutionary framework, we examine how community assembly, specifically the emergence of phytoplankton cell size diversity, reflects the combined effects of bottom-up and top-down controls. When compared with a species-selection approach, based on the paradigm that Everything is everywhere, but the environment selects, we show that (i) the selected optimal trait values are similar; (ii) the patterns emerging from the adaptive model are more robust, but (iii) the two methods lead to different predictions in terms of emergent diversity. We demonstrate that explicitly evolutionary approaches to modelling marine microbial populations and functionality are feasible and practical in time-varying, space-resolving settings and provide a new tool for exploring evolutionary interactions on a range of timescales in the ocean.	2015	10.1093/plankt/fbu078
Terrat, S; Plassart, P; Bourgeois, E; Ferreira, S; Dequiedt, S; Adele-Dit-De-Renseville, N; Lemanceau, P; Bispo, A; Chabbi, A; Maron, PA; Ranjard, L	Meta-barcoded evaluation of the ISO standard 11063 DNA extraction procedure to characterize soil bacterial and fungal community diversity and composition	MICROBIAL BIOTECHNOLOGY	This study was designed to assess the influence of three soil DNA extraction procedures, namely the International Organization for Standardization (ISO-11063, GnS-GII and modified ISO procedure (ISOm), on the taxonomic diversity and composition of soil bacterial and fungal communities. The efficacy of each soil DNA extraction method was assessed on five soils, differing in their physico-chemical characteristics and land use. A meta-barcoded pyrosequencing approach targeting 16S and 18S rRNA genes was applied to characterize soil microbial communities. We first observed that the GnS-GII introduced some heterogeneity in bacterial composition between replicates. Then, although no major difference was observed between extraction procedures for soil bacterial diversity, we saw that the number of fungal genera could be underestimated by the ISO-11063. In particular, this procedure underestimated the detection in several soils of the genera Cryptococcus, Pseudallescheria, Hypocrea and Plectosphaerella, which are of ecological interest. Based on these results, we recommend using the ISOm method for studies focusing on both the bacterial and fungal communities. Indeed, the ISOm procedure provides a better evaluation of bacterial and fungal communities and is limited to the modification of the mechanical lysis step of the existing ISO-11063 standard.	2015	10.1111/1751-7915.12162
Lemanceau, P; Maron, PA; Mazurier, S; Mougel, C; Pivato, B; Plassart, P; Ranjard, L; Revellin, C; Tardy, V; Wipf, D	Understanding and managing soil biodiversity: a major challenge in agroecology	AGRONOMY FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT	Soils are living environments in which particularly abundant and diverse microbiome and fauna are evolving. The resulting biological functioning has a direct impact not only on soil fertility but also on a series of ecosystems services. Thus, microbial communities are involved in geochemical cycles in which microbial enzymes catalyse the different steps. Modulation of the corresponding activities is essential as these affect plant growth and environmental quality. In general, biodiversity affects both the productivity and stability of agroecosystems. It is therefore of paramount importance to take soil biodiversity and biological functioning into account when designing cropping systems and evaluating their impacts. The progress achieved in soil microbiology in recent years now makes it possible to propose analyses of soil biology, as has been feasible for many years for soil physicochemistry. These analyses obviously require the use of standardized procedures for soil sampling, measuring the abundance and diversity of the microbial communities, as well as the identification of bioindicators. Similarly, referential systems need to be established to interpret these analyses and diagnose the biological status of soils, and, more especially, to determine whether the obtained values are within the range of variations normal for a given soil type and land use. Great progress to standardize such procedures and establish referential systems has been achieved during large-scale research programmes carried out to characterize biodiversity on national and European scales. These diagnostic elements need to be accompanied by recommendations. The aim of ongoing research is thus to propose aids for decision-making, based on the results of biological analyses, so attempts can be made to monitor and manage biodiversity to satisfy soil fertility requirements and ensure the ecosystem services expected of soils.	2015	10.1007/s13593-014-0247-0
Parvathi, A; Jasna, V; Jina, S; Jayalakshmy, KV; Lallu, KR; Madhu, NV; Muraleedharan, KR; Kumar, KRN; Balachandran, KK	Effects of hydrography on the distribution of bacteria and virus in Cochin estuary, India	ECOLOGICAL RESEARCH	The viral dynamics have rarely been investigated in estuarine environments of India. The present study brings out a first hand information on the distribution of virus and bacteria in an eutrophic estuary (Cochin, India). Thirteen stations were selected for monthly monitoring of bacterial abundance (BA), total viable bacterial count (TVC), viral abundance (VA), chlorophyll a (Chl a) and other water quality parameters (temperature, salinity, pH, dissolved oxygen and inorganic nutrients such as NO3-N, NH4-N, PO4-P and SiO4-Si) for 1 year. There was significant variations in the VA [0.59-4.48 x 10(7)viral like particles (VLPs) mL(-1)] and BA (0.49-8.12 x 10(6) cells mL(-1)) in the estuary. The variation in the viral to bacterial ratio (3-22) indicated marked seasonality. Statistical analysis showed bacteria as a major factor controlling the distribution of viruses (60 % variability) in Cochin estuary (CE). The viruses also showed positive correlations with Chl a, pH and salinity. The distribution of virus followed a distinct pattern of three different zones in the estuary controlled by salinity in zone I, Chl a in zone II and salinity, Chl a in zone III. The zonal distribution suggests that the factors that control the viral-host systems vary in different areas due to the complex hydrography of the estuary and environmental changes are very sensitive to the viral population in CE.	2015	10.1007/s11284-014-1214-6
Hambright, KD; Beyer, JE; Easton, JD; Zamor, RM; Easton, AC; Hallidayschult, TC	The niche of an invasive marine microbe in a subtropical freshwater impoundment	ISME JOURNAL	Growing attention in aquatic ecology is focusing on biogeographic patterns in microorganisms and whether these potential patterns can be explained within the framework of general ecology. The long-standing microbiologists credo Everything is everywhere, but, the environment selects suggests that dispersal is not limiting for microbes, but that the environment is the primary determining factor in microbial community composition. Advances in molecular techniques have provided new evidence that biogeographic patterns exist in microbes and that dispersal limitation may actually have an important role, yet more recent study using extremely deep sequencing predicts that indeed everything is everywhere. Using a long-term field study of the invasive marine haptophyte Prymnesium parvum, we characterize the environmental niche of P. parvum in a subtropical impoundment in the southern United States. Our analysis contributes to a growing body of evidence that indicates a primary role for environmental conditions, but not dispersal, in the lakewide abundances and seasonal bloom patterns in this globally important microbe.	2015	10.1038/ismej.2014.103
Wang, JT; Cao, P; Hu, HW; Li, J; Han, LL; Zhang, LM; Zheng, YM; He, JZ	Altitudinal Distribution Patterns of Soil Bacterial and Archaeal Communities Along Mt. Shegyla on the Tibetan Plateau	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Unraveling the distribution patterns of plants and animals along the elevational gradients has been attracting growing scientific interests of ecologists, whether the microbial communities exhibit similar elevational patterns, however, remains largely less documented. Here, we investigate the biogeographic distribution of soil archaeal and bacterial communities across three vertical climate zones (3,106-4,479 m.a.s.l.) in Mt. Shegyla on the Tibetan Plateau, by combining quantitative PCR and high-throughput barcoded pyrosequencing approaches. Our results found that the ratio of bacterial to archaeal 16S rRNA gene abundance was negatively related with elevation. Acidobacteria dominated in the bacterial communities, Marine benthic group A dominated in the archaeal communities, and the relative abundance of both taxa changed significantly with elevation. At the taxonomic levels of domain, phylum, and class, more bacterial taxa than archaeal exhibited declining trend in diversity along the increasing elevational gradient, as revealed by Shannon and Faiths phylogenetic diversity indices. Unweighted UniFrac distance clustering showed that the bacterial communities from the mountainous temperate zone clustered together, whereas those from the subalpine cool temperate zone clustered together. However, the partitioning effect of elevational zones on the archaeal community was much weaker compared to that on bacteria. Redundancy analysis revealed that soil geochemical factors explained 58.3 % of the bacterial community variance and 75.4 % of the archaeal community variance. Taken together, we provide evidence that soil bacteria exhibited more apparent elevational zonation feature and decreased diversity pattern than archaea with increasing elevation, and distribution patterns of soil microbes are strongly regulated by soil properties along elevational gradient in this plateau montane ecosystem.	2015	10.1007/s00248-014-0465-7
Huang, SJ; Zhang, S; Jiao, NZ; Chen, F	Marine Cyanophages Demonstrate Biogeographic Patterns throughout the Global Ocean	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Myoviruses and podoviruses that infect cyanobacteria are the two major groups of marine cyanophages, but little is known of how their phylogenetic lineages are distributed in different habitats. In this study, we analyzed the phylogenetic relationships of cyanopodoviruses and cyanomyoviruses based on the existing genomes. The 28 cyanomyoviruses were classified into four clusters (I to IV), and 19 of the 20 cyanopodoviruses were classified into two clusters, MPP-A and MPP-B, with four subclusters within cluster MPP-B. These genomes were used to recruit cyanophage-like fragments from microbial and viral metagenomes to estimate the relative abundances of these cyanophage lineages. Our results showed that cyanopodoviruses and cyanomyoviruses are both abundant in various marine environments and that clusters MPP-B, II and III appear to be the most dominant lineages. Cyanopodoviruses and cluster I and IV cyanomyoviruses exhibited habitat-related variability in their relative levels of abundance, while cluster II and III cyanomyoviruses appeared to be consistently dominant in various habitats. Multivariate analyses showed that reads that mapped to Synechococcus phages and Prochlorococcus phages had distinct distribution patterns that were significantly correlated to those of Synechococcus and Prochlorococcus, respectively. The Mantel test also revealed a strong correlation between the community compositions of cyanophages and picocyanobacteria. Given that cyanomyoviruses tend to have a broad host range and some can cross-infect Synechococcus and Prochlorococcus, while cyanopodoviruses are commonly host specific, the observation that their community compositions both correlated significantly with that of picocyanobacteria was unexpected. Although cyanomyoviruses and cyanopodoviruses differ in host specificity, their biogeographic distributions are likely both constrained by the picocyanobacterial community.	2015	10.1128/AEM.02483-14
Wanner, M; Elmer, M; Sommer, M; Funk, R; Puppe, D	Testate amoebae colonizing a newly exposed land surface are of airborne origin	ECOLOGICAL INDICATORS	We hypothesized that at the very beginning of terrestrial ecosystem development, airborne testate amoebae play a pivotal role in facilitating organismic colonization and related soil processes. We, therefore, analyzed size and quantity of airborne testate amoebae and immigration and colonization success of airborne testate amoebae on a new land surface (experimental site Chicken Creek, artificial post-mining water catchment). Within an altogether 91-day exposure of 70 adhesive traps, 12 species of testate amoebae were identified to be of airborne origin. Phryganella acropodia (51% of all individuals found, diameter about 35-45 mu m) and Centropyxis sphagnicola (23% of all individuals found, longest axis about 55-68 mu m), occurred most frequently in the adhesive traps. We extrapolated an aerial amoeba deposition of 61 individuals d(-1) m(-2) (living and dead individuals combined). Although it would be necessary to have a longer sequence (some additional years), our analysis of the target substrate of aerial immigration (catchment site) may point to a shift from a stochastic (variable) beginning of community assembly to a more deterministic (stable) course. This shift was assigned to an age of seven years of initial soil development. Although experienced specialists are necessary to conduct these time-consuming studies, the presented data suggest that terrestrial amoebae are suitable indicators for initial ecosystem development and utilization. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2015	10.1016/j.ecolind.2014.07.037
Shi, Y; Xiang, XJ; Shen, CC; Chu, HY; Neufeld, JD; Walker, VK; Grogan, P	Vegetation-Associated Impacts on Arctic Tundra Bacterial and Microeukaryotic Communities	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	The Arctic is experiencing rapid vegetation changes, such as shrub and tree line expansion, due to climate warming, as well as increased wetland variability due to hydrological changes associated with permafrost thawing. These changes are of global concern because changes in vegetation may increase tundra soil biogeochemical processes that would significantly enhance atmospheric CO2 concentrations. Predicting the latter will at least partly depend on knowing the structure, functional activities, and distributions of soil microbes among the vegetation types across Arctic landscapes. Here we investigated the bacterial and microeukaryotic community structures in soils from the four principal low Arctic tundra vegetation types: wet sedge, birch hummock, tall birch, and dry heath. Sequencing of rRNA gene fragments indicated that the wet sedge and tall birch communities differed significantly from each other and from those associated with the other two dominant vegetation types. Distinct microbial communities were associated with soil pH, ammonium concentration, carbon/nitrogen (C/N) ratio, and moisture content. In soils with similar moisture contents and pHs (excluding wet sedge), bacterial, fungal, and total eukaryotic communities were correlated with the ammonium concentration, dissolved organic nitrogen (DON) content, and C/N ratio. Operational taxonomic unit (OTU) richness, Faiths phylogenetic diversity, and the Shannon species-level index (H) were generally lower in the tall birch soil than in soil from the other vegetation types, with pH being strongly correlated with bacterial richness and Faiths phylogenetic diversity. Together, these results suggest that Arctic soil feedback responses to climate change will be vegetation specific not just because of distinctive substrates and environmental characteristics but also, potentially, because of inherent differences in microbial community structure.	2015	10.1128/AEM.03229-14
Balint, M; Bartha, L; OHara, RB; Olson, MS; Otte, J; Pfenninger, M; Robertson, AL; Tiffin, P; Schmitt, I	Relocation, high-latitude warming and host genetic identity shape the foliar fungal microbiome of poplars	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	Micro-organisms associated with plants and animals affect host fitness, shape community structure and influence ecosystem properties. Climate change is expected to influence microbial communities, but their reactions are not well understood. Host-associated micro-organisms are influenced by the climate reactions of their hosts, which may undergo range shifts due to climatic niche tracking, or may be actively relocated to mitigate the effects of climate change. We used a common-garden experiment and rDNA metabarcoding to examine the effect of host relocation and high-latitude warming on the complex fungal endophytic microbiome associated with leaves of an ecologically dominant boreal forest tree (Populus balsamifera L.). We also considered the potential effects of poplar genetic identity in defining the reactions of the microbiome to the treatments. The relocation of hosts to the north increased the diversity of the microbiome and influenced its structure, with results indicating enemy release from plausible pathogens. High-latitude warming decreased microbiome diversity in comparison with natural northern conditions. The warming also caused structural changes, which made the fungal communities distinct in comparison with both low-latitude and high-latitude natural communities, and increased the abundance of plausible pathogens. The reactions of the microbiome to relocation and warming were strongly dependent on host genetic identity. This suggests that climate change effects on host-microbiome systems may be mediated by the interaction of environmental factors and the population genetic processes of the hosts.	2015	10.1111/mec.13018
Kivela, M; Arnaud-Haond, S; Saramaki, J	EDENetworks: A user-friendly software to build and analyse networks in biogeography, ecology and population genetics	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY RESOURCES	The recent application of graph-based network theory analysis to biogeography, community ecology and population genetics has created a need for user-friendly software, which would allow a wider accessibility to and adaptation of these methods. EDENetworks aims to fill this void by providing an easy-to-use interface for the whole analysis pipeline of ecological and evolutionary networks starting from matrices of species distributions, genotypes, bacterial OTUs or populations characterized genetically. The user can choose between several different ecological distance metrics, such as Bray-Curtis or Sorensen distance, or population genetic metrics such as F-ST or Goldstein distances, to turn the raw data into a distance/dissimilarity matrix. This matrix is then transformed into a network by manual or automatic thresholding based on percolation theory or by building the minimum spanning tree. The networks can be visualized along with auxiliary data and analysed with various metrics such as degree, clustering coefficient, assortativity and betweenness centrality. The statistical significance of the results can be estimated either by resampling the original biological data or by null models based on permutations of the data.	2015	10.1111/1755-0998.12290
Prober, SM; Leff, JW; Bates, ST; Borer, ET; Firn, J; Harpole, WS; Lind, EM; Seabloom, EW; Adler, PB; Bakker, JD; Cleland, EE; DeCrappeo, NM; DeLorenze, E; Hagenah, N; Hautier, Y; Hofmockel, KS; Kirkman, KP; Knops, JMH; La Pierre, KJ; MacDougall, AS; McCulley, RL; Mitchell, CE; Risch, AC; Schuetz, M; Stevens, CJ; Williams, RJ; Fierer, N	Plant diversity predicts beta but not alpha diversity of soil microbes across grasslands worldwide	ECOLOGY LETTERS	Aboveground-belowground interactions exert critical controls on the composition and function of terrestrial ecosystems, yet the fundamental relationships between plant diversity and soil microbial diversity remain elusive. Theory predicts predominantly positive associations but tests within single sites have shown variable relationships, and associations between plant and microbial diversity across broad spatial scales remain largely unexplored. We compared the diversity of plant, bacterial, archaeal and fungal communities in one hundred and forty-five 1m(2) plots across 25 temperate grassland sites from four continents. Across sites, the plant alpha diversity patterns were poorly related to those observed for any soil microbial group. However, plant beta diversity (compositional dissimilarity between sites) was significantly correlated with the beta diversity of bacterial and fungal communities, even after controlling for environmental factors. Thus, across a global range of temperate grasslands, plant diversity can predict patterns in the composition of soil microbial communities, but not patterns in alpha diversity.	2015	10.1111/ele.12381
Bobrov, A; Qin, YM; Wilkinson, DM	Latitudinal Diversity Gradients in Free-living Microorganisms - Hoogenraadia a Key Genus in Testate Amoebae Biogeography	ACTA PROTOZOOLOGICA	The extent to which free-living microorganisms show cosmopolitan distributions has been a contentious aspect of microbial ecology over the last few decades. Testate amoebae are a group of free living protists that can provide important evidence for the nature of the biogeography of microorganisms because there are relatively good data on the distribution of their morpho-species (compared to many other microbial groups). Many testate amoebae appear to exhibit ubiquitous distributions, while some taxa have proven to be endemic to limited regions. The genus Hoogenraadia (Gauthier-Lievre and Thomas 1958) is of particular interest in this context as it appears to be restricted to relatively low latitudes. There are six described species of the genus: H. africana Gauthier-Lievre and Thomas 1958, H. asiatica Wang and Min 1987, H. cryptostoma Gauthier-Lievre and Thomas 1958, H. humicola Bonnet 1976, H. ovata Bonnet 1976, and H. sylvatica Vucetich 1974. However, information on these taxa is scattered through a number of different papers - here we provide a summary of what is known about the taxonomy and ecology of this genus. We also reinterpret recent new records of putative H. africana from China (suggesting this identification is not reliable). As an example of a protist taxon largely restricted to the tropics this genus is of particular interest in microbial biogeography and this paper discusses its morphology, ecology and distribution in this context.	2015	10.4467/16890027AP.15.001.2188
Magnabosco, C; Tekere, M; Lau, MCY; Linage, B; Kuloyo, O; Erasmus, M; Cason, E; van Heerden, E; Borgonie, G; Kieft, TL; Olivier, J; Onstott, TC	Comparisons of the composition and biogeographic distribution of the bacterial communities occupying South African thermal springs with those inhabiting deep subsurface fracture water	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	South Africa has numerous thermal springs that represent topographically driven meteoric water migrating along major fracture zones. The temperature (40-70 degrees C) and pH (8-9) of the thermal springs in the Limpopo Province are very similar to those of the low salinity fracture water encountered in the South African mines at depths ranging from 1.0 to 3.1 km. The major cation and anion composition of these thermal springs are very similar to that of the deep fracture water with the exception of the dissolved inorganic carbon and dissolved O-2, both of which are typically higher in the springs than in the deep fracture water. The in situ biological relatedness of such thermal springs and the subsurface fracture fluids that feed them has not previously been evaluated. In this study, we evaluated the microbial diversity of six thermal spring and six subsurface sites in South Africa using high-throughput sequencing of 16S rRNA gene hypervariable regions. Proteobacteria were identified as the dominant phylum within both subsurface and thermal spring environments, but only one genera, Rheinheimera, was identified among all samples. Using Morisita similarity indices as a metric for pairwise comparisons between sites, we found that the communities of thermal springs are highly distinct from subsurface datasets. Although the Limpopo thermal springs do not appear to provide a new window for viewing subsurface bacterial communities, we report that the taxonomic compositions of the subsurface sites studied are more similar than previous results would indicate and provide evidence that the microbial communities sampled at depth are more correlated to subsurface conditions than geographical distance.	2014	10.3389/fmicb.2014.00679
Pascual-Garcia, A; Tamames, J; Bastolla, U	Bacteria dialog with Santa Rosalia: Are aggregations of cosmopolitan bacteria mainly explained by habitat filtering or by ecological interactions?	BMC MICROBIOLOGY	Background: Since the landmark Santa Rosalia paper by Hutchinson, niche theory addresses the determinants of biodiversity in terms of both environmental and biological aspects. Disentangling the role of habitat filtering and interactions with other species is critical for understanding microbial ecology. Macroscopic biogeography explores hypothetical ecological interactions through the analysis of species associations. These methods have started to be incorporated into microbial ecology relatively recently, due to the inherent experimental difficulties and the coarse grained nature of the data. Results: Here we investigate the influence of environmental preferences and ecological interactions in the tendency of bacterial taxa to either aggregate or segregate, using a comprehensive dataset of bacterial taxa observed in a wide variety of environments. We assess significance of taxa associations through a null model that takes into account habitat preferences and the global distribution of taxa across samples. The analysis of these associations reveals a surprisingly large number of significant aggregations between taxa, with a marked community structure and a strong propensity to aggregate for cosmopolitan taxa. Due to the coarse grained nature of our data we cannot conclusively reject the hypothesis that many of these aggregations are due to environmental preferences that the null model fails to reproduce. Nevertheless, some observations are better explained by ecological interactions than by habitat filtering. In particular, most pairs of aggregating taxa co-occur in very different environments, which makes it unlikely that these associations are due to habitat preferences, and many are formed by cosmopolitan taxa without well defined habitat preferences. Moreover, known cooperative interactions are retrieved as aggregating pairs of taxa. As observed in similar studies, we also found that phylogenetically related taxa are much more prone to aggregate than to segregate, an observation that may play a role in bacterial speciation. Conclusions: We hope that these results stimulate experimental verification of the putative cooperative interactions between cosmopolitan bacteria, and we suggest several groups of aggregated cosmopolitan bacteria that are interesting candidates for such an investigation.	2014	10.1186/s12866-014-0284-5
Espinosa-Asuar, L; Escalante, AE; Falcon, LI; Bonilla-Rosso, G; Ramirez-Barahona, S; Eguiarte, LE; Souza, V	Analysis of three molecular methods to describe sea Yucatan, Mexico environmental prokaryotic taxa	HIDROBIOLOGICA	In this study we describe a prokaryotic community from a seawater sample obtained in the Yucatan Channel, using for this purpose three molecular methods: 1) T-RFLPs. 2) Sequencing of amplicons (clone libraries). 3) Metagenome shotgun sequencing; the three are useful for the determination of microbial diversity. We also present a comparison of the scope and limits of each method. The comparison took into account three criteria: the number of taxonomic units detected, the taxonomic assignment accuracy and the cost of the study. The most abundant taxa were Candidatus Portiera OTU 3744 (equivalent to SAR86 clade) and Candidatus Pelagibacter. The results showed that the shotgun sequencing strategy is the most powerful in terms of detected taxonomic units, while the data obtained by T-RFLPs and clone library methods represent only a subsample of the shotgun fragment library. Regarding phylogenetic resolution (taxonomical determination), the more accurate approach is the sequencing of clone libraries. The costs of the three strategies vary considerably, but so does its scope. Therefore, it is important to consider that one, or another methodology, can only specifically answer some ecological and evolutionary questions.	2014	
Repert, DA; Underwood, JC; Smith, RL; Song, B	Nitrogen cycling processes andmicrobial community composition in bed sediments in the Yukon River at Pilot Station	Journal of Geophysical Research-Biogeosciences	Information on the contribution of nitrogen (N)-cycling processes in bed sediments to river nutrient fluxes in large northern latitude river systems is limited. This study examined the relationship between N-cycling processes in bed sediments and N speciation and loading in the Yukon River near its mouth at the Bering Sea. We conducted laboratory bioassays to measure N-cycling processes in sediment samples collected over distinct water cycle seasons. In conjunction, the microbial community composition in the bed sediments using genes involved in N-cycling (narG, napA, nosZ, and amoA) and 16S rRNA gene pyrosequences was examined. Temporal variation was observed in net N mineralization, nitrate uptake, and denitrification rate potentials and correlated strongly with sediment carbon (C) and extractable N content and microbial community composition rather than with river water nutrient concentrations. The C content of the bed sediment was notably impacted by the spring flood, ranging from 1.1% in the midst of an ice-jam to 0.1% immediately after ice-out, suggesting a buildup of organic material (OM) prior to scouring of the bed sediments during ice break up. The dominant members of the microbial community that explained differences in N-processing rates belonged to the genera Crenothrix, Flavobacterium, and the family of Comamonadaceae. Our results suggest that biogeochemical processing rates in the bed sediments appear to be more coupled to hydrology, nutrient availability in the sediments, and microbial community composition rather than river nutrient concentrations at Pilot Station.	2014	10.1002/2014JG002707
Aschenbrenner, IA; Cardinale, M; Berg, G; Grube, M	Microbial cargo: do bacteria on symbiotic propagules reinforce the microbiome of lichens?	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	According to recent research, bacteria contribute as recurrent associates to the lichen symbiosis. Yet, the variation of the microbiomes within species and across geographically separated populations remained largely elusive. As a quite common dispersal mode, lichens evolved vertical transmission of both fungal and algal partners in specifically designed mitotic propagules. Bacteria, if co-transmitted with these symbiotic propagules, could contribute to a geographical structure of lichen-associated microbiomes. The lung lichen was sampled from three localities in eastern Austria to analyse their associated bacterial communities by bar-coded pyrosequencing, network analysis and fluorescence in situ hybridization. For the first time, bacteria were documented to colonize symbiotic propagules of lichens developed for short-distance transmission of the symbionts. The propagules share the overall bacterial community structure with the thalli at class level, except for filamentous Cyanobacteria (Nostocophycideae), and with Alphaproteobacteria as predominant group. All three sampling sites share a core fraction of the microbiome. Bacterial communities of lichen thalli from the same sampling site showed higher similarity than those of distant populations. This variation and the potential co-dispersal of a microbiome fraction with structures of the host organism contribute new aspects to the everything is everywhere hypothesis.	2014	10.1111/1462-2920.12658
Fuenzalida, G; Poulin, E; Gonzalez-Wevar, C; Molina, C; Cardenas, L	Next-generation transcriptome characterization in three Nacella species (Patellogastropoda: Nacellidae) from South America and Antarctica	MARINE GENOMICS	The southern tip of South America and Antarctica are particularly interesting due to many genera and also species currently sharing between both areas. The genus Nacella (Patellogastropoda: Nacellidae) is distributed in different regions of South America and Antarctica living preferentially on rocks and boulders and grazing on algae, diatoms and bacterial films. We described the transcriptomes of three Nacella species, Nacella concinna (Strebel, 1908), inhabiting the Antarctic Peninsula; Nacella magallanica (Gmelin, 1791), from Patagonia and Nacella clypeater (Lesson, 1831), from central Chile. In total, we obtained over 20,000 contigs with an average length of 583 bp. Homologous protein coding genes (PCGs) for mitochondrial genome of the three species were characterized and a database of molecular markers was also generated. This study represents the first publicly available report on pyrosequencing data for patellogastropod species, and provides an important comparative resource for studies in ecophysiology and evolutionary adaptation in marine invertebrate species. (c) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2014	10.1016/j.margen.2014.06.004
Todorov, M; Golemansky, V	Soil Testate Amoebae (Amoebozoa, Rhizaria) of a Tropical Rainforest in Madagascar	ACTA ZOOLOGICA BULGARICA	The testate amoebae communities in soil of the tropical rainforest from the Maromizaha Protected Area in Madagascar were investigated. A total of 2848 individuals of 51 taxa (43 species and 8 intraspecific taxa) belonging to 19 genera of testate amoebae were found. Phryganella acropodia (224 id., 7.9%), Plagiopyxis minuta (223, 7.8%), Plagiopyxis declivis (218, 7.7%), Cyclopyxis eurystoma (217, 7.6%), Centropyxis stenodeflandriana (211, 7.4%), Plagiopyxis bathystoma (184, 6.5%) and Trinema lineare (178, 6.2%) were the most frequently occurring species with the highest relative abundance. The genera Centropyxis (10 taxa), Plagiopyxis (6), Trinema (5), Cyclopyxis (5) and Euglypha (5) were most diverse. The majority of the recorded species belonged to the group of soil- or litter- inhabiting testate amoebae with cosmopolitan distribution. Some rare species with restricted geographical distribution of the Gondwanan Tropical group have also been found (e.g. Apodera vas, Centropyxis stenodeflandriana, Lamtopyxis callistoma, Plagiopyxis bathystoma and Planhoogenraadia media). The analysis of the distribution of the genus Lamtopyxis demonstrates that, similarly to Apodera vas, the species of this genus may also be used as an example that not everything is everywhere in free-living microbial eukaryotes.	2014	
Kivlin, SN; Winston, GC; Goulden, ML; Treseder, KK	Environmental filtering affects soil fungal community composition more than dispersal limitation at regional scales	FUNGAL ECOLOGY	The relative importance of dispersal limitation versus environmental filtering for community assembly has received much attention for macroorganisms. These processes have only recently been examined in microbial communities. Instead, microbial dispersal has mostly been measured as community composition change over space (i.e., distance decay). Here we directly examined fungal composition in airborne wind currents and soil fungal communities across a 40 000 km(2) regional landscape to determine if dispersal limitation or abiotic factors were structuring soil fungal communities. Over this landscape, neither airborne nor soil fungal communities exhibited compositional differences due to geographic distance. Airborne fungal communities shifted temporally while soil fungal communities were correlated with abiotic parameters. These patterns suggest that environmental filtering may have the largest influence on fungal regional community assembly in soils, especially for aerially dispersed fungal taxa. Furthermore, we found evidence that dispersal of fungal spores differs between fungal taxa and can be both a stochastic and deterministic process. The spatial range of soil fungal taxa was correlated with their average regional abundance across all sites, which may imply stochastic dispersal mechanisms. Nevertheless, spore volume was also negatively correlated with spatial range for some species. Smaller volume spores may be adapted to long-range dispersal, or establishment, suggesting that deterministic fungal traits may also influence fungal distributions. Fungal life-history traits may influence their distributions as well. Hypogeous fungal taxa exhibited high local abundance, but small spatial ranges, while epigeous fungal taxa had lower local abundance, but larger spatial ranges. This study is the first, to our knowledge, to directly sample air dispersal and soil fungal communities simultaneously across a regional landscape. We provide some of the first evidence that soil fungal communities are mostly assembled through environmental filtering and experience little dispersal limitation. Elsevier Ltd and The British Mycological Society.	2014	10.1016/j.funeco.2014.04.004
Belisle, M; Mendenhall, CD; Brenes, FO; Fukami, T	Temporal variation in fungal communities associated with tropical hummingbirds and nectarivorous bats	FUNGAL ECOLOGY	Species of yeasts and other microfungi carried by pollinators are of general ecological interest because some of these microbial species can grow in floral nectar and affect plant-pollinator interactions. It is, however, not well understood how the composition of fungal species found on pollinators varies over space or time. The spatial and temporal distribution patterns in the microfungi found on the bills of hummingbirds and in the mouths of nectarivorous bats was investigated along a gradient of deforestation within a Costa Rican countryside landscape. The community composition of microfungi found on hummingbirds bills and bats mouths underwent substantial compositional turnover over a 2-month period and between 2 yr. In contrast, fungal community composition was not significantly correlated with spatial distance, habitat type, species of hummingbirds, nor the forest dependency of the hummingbirds sampled for microfungi. These findings suggest that, in this landscape, fungal communities on a nectarivous vertebrate vector might be influenced primarily by temporal factors such as plant and flower phenology rather than spatial environmental heterogeneity. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd and The British Mycological Society. All rights reserved.	2014	10.1016/j.funeco.2014.02.007
Liu, JW; Yang, HM; Zhao, MX; Zhang, XH	Spatial distribution patterns of benthic microbial communities along the Pearl Estuary, China	SYSTEMATIC AND APPLIED MICROBIOLOGY	In the present study, benthic microbial communities along the Pearl Estuary, a typical subtropical estuary in China subjected to extensive anthropogenic disturbance, were investigated using 16S rRNA gene-based pyrosequencing. The results showed that microbial communities in freshwater samples were clearly distinct from those in saltwater samples, since the relative sequence abundances of Deltaproteobacteria, Thermoplasmata and Marine Group I (MG-I) were higher in saltwater sediments, whereas Chloroflexi, Spirochaetes, Betaproteobacteria and methanogens were more prevalent in freshwater sediments. In addition, bacterial communities showed vertical stratifications in saltwater sediments, but remained constant with depth in freshwater sediments. The total organic carbon and carbon/nitrogen ratio in sediments correlated significantly with the overall community variations. The predominance of various microorganisms in specific niches led to efforts to identify their functional couplings by exploring their co-occurrence patterns. Using network analysis, strong positive correlations were observed between sulfate-reducing bacteria (SRB) and sulfur-oxidizing bacteria, and between SRB and nitrite-oxidizing bacteria, indicating the potential interactions of intra-sulfur cycle processes, as well as sulfur and nitrogen cycles, in coastal sediments. Archaeal clades revealed strong and wide correlations between the Miscellaneous Crenarchaeotal Group (MCG) and other groups, suggesting a central role of MCG in the coastal benthic environment. Inversely, MG-I displayed negative correlations with other clades, which might indicate that the lifestyles of heterotrophic and autotrophic clades were mutually exclusive. This study presented a detailed outline of the biogeographic patterns of benthic microbial communities along the Pearl Estuary and provided new information regarding the potential interactions of various biogeochemical cycles in coastal sediments. (C) 2014 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.	2014	10.1016/j.syapm.2014.10.005
Verastegui-Valdes, MM; Zhang, YJ; Rivera-Orduna, FN; Cheng, HP; Sui, XH; Wang, ET	Microsymbionts of Phaseolus vulgaris in acid and alkaline soils of Mexico	SYSTEMATIC AND APPLIED MICROBIOLOGY	In order to investigate bean-nodulating rhizobia in different types of soil, 41 nodule isolates from acid and alkaline soils in Mexico were characterized. Based upon the phylogenetic studies of 16S rRNA, atpD, glnII, recA, rpoB, gyrB, nifH and nodC genes, the isolates originating from acid soils were identified as the phaseoli symbiovar of the Rhizobium leguminosarum-like group and Rhizobium grahamii, whereas the isolates from alkaline soils were defined as Ensifer americanum sv. mediterranense and Rhizobium radiobacter. The isolates of R. leguminosarum and E. americanum harbored nodC and nifH genes, but the symbiotic genes were not detected in the four isolates of the other two species. It was the first time that R. leguminosarum and E. americanum have been reported as bean-nodulating bacteria in Mexico. The high similarity of symbiotic genes in the Rhizobium and Ensifer populations showed that these genes had the same origin and have diversified recently in different rhizobial species. Phenotypic characterization revealed that the R. leguminosarum population was more adapted to the acid and low salinity conditions, while the E. americanum population preferred alkaline conditions. The findings of this study have improved the knowledge of the diversity, geographic distribution and evolution of bean-nodulating rhizobia in Mexico. (C) 2014 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.	2014	10.1016/j.syapm.2014.08.005
Zhang, F; Pita, L; Erwin, PM; Abaid, S; Lopez-Legentil, S; Hill, RT	Symbiotic archaea in marine sponges show stability and host specificity in community structure and ammonia oxidation functionality	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Archaea associated with marine sponges are active and influence the nitrogen metabolism of sponges. However, we know little about their occurrence, specificity, and persistence. We aimed to elucidate the relative importance of host specificity and biogeographic background in shaping the symbiotic archaeal communities. We investigated these communities in sympatric sponges from the Mediterranean (Ircinia fasciculata and Ircinia oros, sampled in summer and winter) and from the Caribbean (Ircinia strobilina and Mycale laxissima). PCR cloning and sequencing of archaeal 16S rRNA and amoA genes showed that the archaeal community composition and structure were different from that in seawater and varied among sponge species. We found that the communities were dominated by ammonia-oxidizing archaea closely related to Nitrosopumilus. The community in M. laxissima differed from that in Ircinia spp., including the sympatric sponge I. strobilina; yet, geographical clusters within Ircinia spp. were observed. Whereas archaeal phylotypes in Ircinia spp. were persistent and belong to sponge-enriched clusters, archaea in M. laxissima were closely related with those from diverse habitats (i.e. seawater and sediments). For all four sponge species, the expression of the archaeal amoA gene was confirmed. Our results indicate that host-specific processes, such as host ecological strategy and evolutionary history, control the sponge-archaeal communities.	2014	10.1111/1574-6941.12427
Oliver, AE; Newbold, LK; Whiteley, AS; van der Gast, CJ	Marine bacterial communities are resistant to elevated carbon dioxide levels	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY REPORTS	It is well established that the release of anthropogenic-derived CO2 into the atmosphere will be mainly absorbed by the oceans, with a concomitant drop in pH, a process termed ocean acidification. As such, there is considerable interest in how changes in increased CO2 and lower pH will affect marine biota, such as bacteria, which play central roles in oceanic biogeochemical processes. Set within an ecological framework, we investigated the direct effects of elevated CO2, contrasted with ambient conditions on the resistance and resilience of marine bacterial communities in a replicated temporal seawater mesocosm experiment. The results of the study strongly indicate that marine bacterial communities are highly resistant to the elevated CO2 and lower pH conditions imposed, as demonstrated from measures of turnover using taxa-time relationships and distance-decay relationships. In addition, no significant differences in community abundance, structure or composition were observed. Our results suggest that there are no direct effects on marine bacterial communities and that the bacterial fraction of microbial plankton holds enough flexibility and evolutionary capacity to withstand predicted future changes from elevated CO2 and subsequent ocean acidification.	2014	10.1111/1758-2229.12159
Barberan, A; Casamayor, EO	A phylogenetic perspective on species diversity, beta-diversity and biogeography for the microbial world	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	There is an increasing interest to combine phylogenetic data with distributional and ecological records to assess how natural communities arrange under an evolutionary perspective. In the microbial world, there is also a need to go beyond the problematic species definition to deeply explore ecological patterns using genetic data. We explored links between evolution/phylogeny and community ecology using bacterial 16S rRNA gene information from a high-altitude lakes district data set. We described phylogenetic community composition, spatial distribution, and -diversity and biogeographical patterns applying evolutionary relatedness without relying on any particular operational taxonomic unit definition. High-altitude lakes districts usually contain a large mosaic of highly diverse small water bodies and conform a fine biogeographical model of spatially close but environmentally heterogeneous ecosystems. We sampled 18 lakes in the Pyrenees with a selection criteria focused on capturing the maximum environmental variation within the smallest geographical area. The results showed highly diverse communities nonrandomly distributed with phylogenetic -diversity patterns mainly shaped by the environment and not by the spatial distance. Community similarity based on both bacterial taxonomic composition and phylogenetic -diversity shared similar patterns and was primarily structured by similar environmental drivers. We observed a positive relationship between lake area and phylogenetic diversity with a slope consistent with highly dispersive planktonic organisms. The phylogenetic approach incorporated patterns of common ancestry into bacterial community analysis and emerged as a very convenient analytical tool for direct inter- and intrabiome biodiversity comparisons and sorting out microbial habitats with potential application in conservation studies.	2014	10.1111/mec.12971
Cederlund, H; Wessen, E; Enwall, K; Jones, CM; Juhanson, J; Pell, M; Philippot, L; Hallin, S	Soil carbon quality and nitrogen fertilization structure bacterial communities with predictable responses of major bacterial phyla	APPLIED SOIL ECOLOGY	Agricultural practices affect the soil ecosystem in multiple ways and the soil microbial communities represent an integrated and dynamic measure of soil status. Our aim was to test whether the soil bacterial community and the relative abundance of major bacterial phyla responded predictably to long-term organic amendments representing different carbon qualities (peat and straw) in combination with nitrogen fertilization levels and if certain bacterial groups were indicative of specific treatments. We hypothesized that the long-term treatments had created distinctly different ecological niches for soil bacteria, suitable for either fast-growing copiotrophic bacteria, or slow-growing oligotrophic bacteria. Based on terminal-restriction fragment length polymorphism of the 16S rRNA genes from the total soil bacterial community and taxa-specific quantitative real-time PCR of seven different groups, all treatments significantly affected the community structure, but nitrogen fertilization was the most important driver for changes in the relative abundances of the studied taxa. According to an indicator species analysis, the changes were largely explained by the decline in the relative abundances of Acidobacteria, Gemmatimonadetes and Verrucomicrobia with nitrogen fertilization. Conditions more favourable for copiotrophic life strategies were indicated in these plots by the decreased metabolic quotient, i.e. the ratio between basal respiration rate and soil biomass. Apart from the Alphaproteobacteria that were significantly associated with peat, no taxa were indicative of organic amendment in general. However, several significant indicators of both peat and straw were identified among the terminal restriction fragments suggesting that changes induced by the organic amendments were mainly manifested at a lower taxonomical level. Our findings strengthen the proposition that certain higher bacterial taxa adapt in an ecologically coherent way in response to changes induced by fertilization. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2014	10.1016/j.apsoil.2014.06.003
Krtinic, B; Francuski, L; Milankov, V	Microhabitat and spatial variation at HK isozyme loci in Culex pipiens: testing isolation by distance and isolation by ecology model	BULLETIN OF INSECTOLOGY	Culex pipiens L. (Diptera Culicidae) is of medical and veterinary importance as vector of various bacterial, filarial and arboviral disease pathogens, and is a major pest in urban areas. Understanding the population structure and gene flow among populations is critical for public health issues such as local dispersion pattern and spread of insecticide resistance. To determine the dispersion pattern of the Cx. pipiens samples across the southern part of the Pannonian Plain of Central Europe (testing Isolation by distance model), and at fine-scale level, between ecologically different larval habitats (testing Isolation by ecology model), we studied hexokinase (HK) genes. Because the polymorphism of HK genes is independent of insecticide use, spatial variation at HK loci provided valuable information on population connectivity of Cx. pipiens. Implementing STRUCTURE statistical analysis, a lack of structuring at individual level of urban and rural samples was observed. Landscape study rejected both ecological and isolation models which implies that different selection regimes of larval habitats and geographic distance do not influence on genotype portioning at HK system. Observed high genetic connectivity among samples throughout urban and rural environments indicated that gene flow is an important factor underlying genetic structure. This study pointed out that control measures restricted to urban areas are unlikely to be effective due to high gene flow between treated and untreated populations. Hence, designing a sustainable vector control strategy for the species with detectable gene flow, such as Cx. pipiens, must remain a regional effort.	2014	
Comte, J; Lindstrom, ES; Eiler, A; Langenheder, S	Can marine bacteria be recruited from freshwater sources and the air?	ISME JOURNAL	There is now clear evidence that microorganisms present biogeographic patterns, yet the processes that create and maintain them are still not well understood. In particular, the contribution of dispersal and its exact impact on local community composition is still unclear. For example, dispersing cells may not thrive in recipient environments, but may still remain part of the local species pool. Here, we experimentally tested if marine bacteria can be retrieved from freshwater communities (pelagic and sediment) and the atmosphere by exposing bacteria from three lakes, that differ in their proximity to the Norwegian Sea, to marine conditions. We found that the percentage of freshwater taxa decreased with increasing salinities, whereas marine taxa increased along the same gradient. Our results further showed that this increase was stronger for lake and sediment compared with air communities. Further, significant increases in the average niche breadth of taxa were found for all sources, and in particular lake water and sediment communities, at higher salinities. Our results therefore suggests that marine taxa can readily grow from freshwater sources, but that the response was likely driven by the growth of habitat generalists that are typically found in marine systems. Finally, there was a greater proportion of marine taxa found in communities originating from the lake closest to the Norwegian Sea. In summary, this study shows that the interplay between bacterial dispersal limitation and dispersal from internal and external sources may have an important role for community recovery in response to environmental change.	2014	10.1038/ismej.2014.89
Yildirim, S; Yeoman, CJ; Janga, SC; Thomas, SM; Ho, MF; Leigh, SR; Consortium, PM; White, BA; Wilson, BA; Stumpf, RM	Primate vaginal microbiomes exhibit species specificity without universal Lactobacillus dominance	ISME JOURNAL	Bacterial communities colonizing the reproductive tracts of primates (including humans) impact the health, survival and fitness of the host, and thereby the evolution of the host species. Despite their importance, we currently have a poor understanding of primate microbiomes. The composition and structure of microbial communities vary considerably depending on the host and environmental factors. We conducted comparative analyses of the primate vaginal microbiome using pyrosequencing of the 16S rRNA genes of a phylogenetically broad range of primates to test for factors affecting the diversity of primate vaginal ecosystems. The nine primate species included: humans (Homo sapiens), yellow baboons (Papio cynocephalus), olive baboons (Papio anubis), lemurs (Propithecus diadema), howler monkeys (Alouatta pigra), red colobus (Piliocolobus rufomitratus), vervets (Chlorocebus aethiops), mangabeys (Cercocebus atys) and chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes). Our results indicated that all primates exhibited host-specific vaginal microbiota and that humans were distinct from other primates in both microbiome composition and diversity. In contrast to the gut microbiome, the vaginal microbiome showed limited congruence with host phylogeny, and neither captivity nor diet elicited substantial effects on the vaginal microbiomes of primates. Permutational multivariate analysis of variance and Wilcoxon tests revealed correlations among vaginal microbiota and host species-specific socioecological factors, particularly related to sexuality, including: female promiscuity, baculum length, gestation time, mating group size and neonatal birth weight. The proportion of unclassified taxa observed in nonhuman primate samples increased with phylogenetic distance from humans, indicative of the existence of previously unrecognized microbial taxa. These findings contribute to our understanding of host-microbe variation and coevolution, microbial biogeography, and disease risk, and have important implications for the use of animal models in studies of human sexual and reproductive diseases.	2014	10.1038/ismej.2014.90
Ansari, PG; Rao, DLN; Pal, KK	Diversity and phylogeny of soybean rhizobia in central India	ANNALS OF MICROBIOLOGY	Soybean is the most important crop legume with the highest share of biological nitrogen fixation among cultivated legumes. During the early years following the introduction of soybean cultivation in India, the effects of rhizobial inoculation were impressive, but they have declined over time due to naturalization of the introduced strains. We have characterized the diversity of soybean rhizobia, mainly those from central India, for phenotypic features, such as utilization of carbon sources and intrinsic resistance to antibiotics. The PCR-amplified 16S rRNA gene products of the strains were sequenced to study genetic diversity and phylogenetic relationships. We found that the rhizobia comprised both slow and fast growers, with the former having a higher Shannon-Weiner Diversity Index (H=2.93 and 3.00 for carbon utilization and intrinsic antibiotic resistance, respectively) than the latter (H=2.62 and 1.90, respectively). There were two 16S rRNA sequence types among the slow growers-Bradyrhizobium spp. (99.4-99.8 % sequence homology) and Rhizobium radiobacter (96.1-99.7 %). In contrast, the fast growing strains belonged exclusively to R. radiobacter (98.9-99.7 %). Bradyrhizobium japonicum strain USDA 110, which was originally introduced on a large scale in Indian soils more than four decades ago, shared 34-81 % phenotypic and 63-83 % genotypic similarity with the other Indian rhizobial isolates characterized. There was conservation of 16S rRNA gene sequences among rhizobia in various soybean-growing areas and the evolution of native rhizobial strains among slow and fast growers. These results on the biodiversity of soybean rhizobia are important for strain selection, which is crucial for the design of successful inoculation programs.	2014	10.1007/s13213-013-0799-2
Heino, J; Tolkkinen, M; Pirttila, AM; Aisala, H; Mykra, H	Microbial diversity and community-environment relationships in boreal streams	JOURNAL OF BIOGEOGRAPHY	AimThe perspective that microbial communities are controlled solely by environmental factors (everything is everywhere, but the environment selects) has persisted for a long time, notwithstanding that recent studies have found that both environmental factors and spatial processes are important. We examined variation in the structure of fungal and bacterial communities in boreal streams along large local environmental gradients (e.g. stream size, acidity and nutrients) at intermediate spatial extent. Owing to the intermediate spatial extent of our study area and high dispersal rates of microbes, we expected that local environmental factors would structure stream fungal and bacterial communities. LocationA set of 30 streams was sampled along a geographical transect from western to eastern Finland. MethodsLeaf packs were used as sampling units in each stream. Fungal and bacterial operational taxonomic units (OTUs) were determined using pyrosequencing in the laboratory. Species accumulation curves were used to assess how well the regional species pools were sampled. Partial redundancy analysis and partial linear regression were used to determine the relative contributions of environmental and spatial variables to community structure and OTU richness, respectively. ResultsWe found that environmental control was important in structuring fungal and bacterial communities, yet much of the variation was attributable to the shared effects of environmental and spatial predictors, or remained unexplained. The composition of fungal and bacterial communities was most strongly related to water chemistry variables (i.e. pH, aluminium and total phosphorus), whereas habitat variables (i.e. riparian deciduous trees, moss cover, substratum particle size and stream width) were clearly less important. We also found that fungal richness was negatively related to water iron concentration, whereas bacterial richness showed only a weak relationship with water pH. Main conclusionsThe composition and richness of stream microbial communities are mostly related to water chemistry variables at the spatial extent studied, emphasizing an important role for species sorting. This finding supports the traditional perspective that local environmental conditions are important drivers of variation in microbial communities. However, much of the variation in fungal and bacterial communities remained unexplained, suggesting that drivers of these communities are likely to be complex and not yet fully understood.	2014	10.1111/jbi.12369
Goberna, M; Garcia, C; Verdu, M	A role for biotic filtering in driving phylogenetic clustering in soil bacterial communities	GLOBAL ECOLOGY AND BIOGEOGRAPHY	AimPhylogenetic clustering, the coexistence of evolutionarily related organisms, appears to be common in soil bacteria. This pattern has traditionally been attributed to the habitat-filtering of bacteria that are able to survive under particular abiotic settings. According to the modern coexistence theory, however, phylogenetic clustering can also arise from biotic interactions such as the competitive exclusion of large clades with low competitive abilities. Here, we used phylogeny-based methods to discern whether the coexistence of evolutionarily related soil bacteria results from abiotic and/or biotic filtering. LocationWorldwide. MethodsWe performed a Bayesian meta-analysis based on a literature review (n=231) to assess whether the net relatedness index (NRI) or the nearest taxon index (NTI), two measures of the phylogenetic relatedness of taxa in local assemblages, deviate from those in randomly configured communities. We then sought the best abiotic (pH, total organic carbon and total nitrogen) and biotic predictors (relative abundance of Proteobacteria, Actinobacteria and Acidobacteria) of NRI and NTI. ResultsPhylogenetic clustering is pervasive in soil bacterial communities regardless of the spatial and taxonomic scales (NRI=2.29; 95% CI [1.43, 3.29]; P<0.001). Clustering is accentuated by productivity; that is, more fertile soils hold communities with more closely related bacteria (estimate=1.05 [0.03, 2.15]; P<0.05). Proteobacterial abundance, which increases with organic carbon enrichment, leads to higher relatedness among coexisting bacteria (estimate=0.1 [0.02, 0.17]; P<0.01) through the competitive exclusion of distantly related deep-branching clades. Main conclusionsOur results, together with the dominance of proteobacterial lineages in soils worldwide, suggest that the overrepresentation of this clade underlies the widespread coexistence of phylogenetically related bacteria. These results are consistent with phylogenetic clustering arising via differences in competitive ability as predicted by the coexistence theory. This supports the idea that biotic filtering might have a role in driving the phylogenetic community assembly of soil prokaryotes.	2014	10.1111/geb.12227
Gordon, DP	Apprehending novel biodiversity-fifteen new genera of Zealandian Bryozoa	JOURNAL OF THE MARINE BIOLOGICAL ASSOCIATION OF THE UNITED KINGDOM	Fifteen new genera of cheilostome Bryozoa are described from the New Zealand biogeographical region, centred on Zealandia, between 29 degrees and 59 degrees S latitude from shallow coastal waters to abyssal depths. The new genera are: Cavelliella, Mangana, Recapitulator (Calloporidae), Microblestrum, Stolomicropora (Pyrisinellidae), Otomicropora, Rosemariella (Microporidae), Bioptica, Caesiopora (Romancheinidae), Cheilonellopsis (Lacernidae), Xenogma (Buffonellodidae), Bountyella (incertae sedis), Taylorius (Escharinidae), Fovoporella (Schizoporellidae) and Ramicellepora (Celleporidae). Several new combinations are also recognized, i.e. Corbulella fossa, Fovoporella spectabilis, Kenaplousina canariensis, Taylorius incognitus, Taylorius masoni, Taylorius waiparaensis and Xenogma rhomboidale. Ten of the new genera are nominally endemic to the New Zealand exclusive economic zone. Recapitulator and Microblestrum (on seamounts near the southern part of the Hjort Trench) and Rosemariella (seamount in the Louisville Ridge) occur in extraterritorial waters, Xenogma extends to Australia and Taylorius extends to South Africa. Taylorius is also known from the Miocene and Fovoporella from the Pliocene. Recapitulator and Mangana have plesiomorphies that are novel among Recent Calloporidae (respectively a costate ooecium and pelmatoporine elongate adventitious interzooidal kenozooids) but which are found in some Cretaceous calloporids or cribrilinids.	2014	10.1017/S0025315414000599
Polme, S; Bahram, M; Koljalg, U; Tedersoo, L	Global biogeography of Alnus-associated Frankia actinobacteria	NEW PHYTOLOGIST	Macroecological patterns of microbes have received relatively little attention until recently. This study aimed to disentangle the determinants of the global biogeographic community of Alnus-associated actinobacteria belonging to the Frankia alni complex. By determining a global sequence similarity threshold for the nitrogenase reductase (nifH) gene, we separated Frankia into operational taxonomic units (OTUs) and tested the relative effects of Alnus phylogeny, geographic relatedness, and climatic and edaphic variables on community composition at the global scale. Based on the optimal nifH gene sequence similarity threshold of 99.3%, we distinguished 43 Frankia OTUs from root systems of 22 Alnus species on four continents. Host phylogeny was the main determinant of Frankia OTU-based community composition, but there was no effect on the phylogenetic structure of Frankia. Biogeographic analyses revealed the strongest cross-continental links over the Beringian land bridge. Despite the facultative symbiotic nature of Frankia, phylogenetic relations among Alnus species play a prominent role in structuring root-associated Frankia communities and their biogeographic patterns. Our results suggest that Alnus species exert strong phylogenetically determined selection pressure on compatible Actinobacteria.	2014	10.1111/nph.12962
Banks, JC; Cary, SC; Hogg, ID	Isolated faecal bacterial communities found for Weddell seals, Leptonychotes weddellii, at White Island, McMurdo Sound, Antarctica	POLAR BIOLOGY	The microbial diversity of faecal communities co-existing with mega fauna is not well understood even though these faecal communities are critical for health and development. Additionally, the transfer of microbial taxa among host animals is little studied. Here, we used 16S sequences obtained from clone libraries to characterise the faecal microbiota of Weddell seals breeding in McMurdo Sound and at White Island, Antarctica. Faecal bacterial communities were dominated by four phyla; Actinobacteria (20 %), Bacteroidetes (13 %), Firmicutes (23 %), and Proteobacteria (13 %). We also used automated ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis to examine the dispersal of bacteria between populations of Weddell seals breeding at White Island and in McMurdo Sound. The Weddell seals at White Island are isolated by the Ross Ice Shelf from the larger population of Weddell seals breeding in McMurdo Sound. We found that the faecal bacteria communities of the seals at White Island had lower diversity and that the community composition was significantly different compared with the seals in the McMurdo Sound area.	2014	10.1007/s00300-014-1567-x
Jackson, CR; Millar, JJ; Payne, JT; Ochs, CA	Free-Living and Particle-Associated Bacterioplankton in Large Rivers of the Mississippi River Basin Demonstrate Biogeographic Patterns	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	The different drainage basins of large rivers such as the Mississippi River represent interesting systems in which to study patterns in freshwater microbial biogeography. Spatial variability in bacterioplankton communities in six major rivers (the Upper Mississippi, Missouri, Illinois, Ohio, Tennessee, and Arkansas) of the Mississippi River Basin was characterized using Ion Torrent 16S rRNA amplicon sequencing. When all systems were combined, particle-associated (> 3 mu m) bacterial assemblages were found to be different from free-living bacterioplankton in terms of overall community structure, partly because of differences in the proportional abundance of sequences affiliated with major bacterial lineages (Alphaproteobacteria, Cyanobacteria, and Planctomycetes). Both particle-associated and free-living communities ordinated by river system, a pattern that was apparent even after rare sequences or those affiliated with Cyanobacteria were removed from the analyses. Ordination of samples by river system correlated with environmental characteristics of each river, such as nutrient status and turbidity. Communities in the Upper Mississippi and the Missouri and in the Ohio and the Tennessee, pairs of rivers that join each other, contained similar taxa in terms of presence-absence data but differed in the proportional abundance of major lineages. The most common sequence types detected in particle-associated communities were picocyanobacteria in the Synechococcus/Prochlorococcus/Cyanobium (Syn/Pro) clade, while free-living communities also contained a high proportion of LD12 (SAR11/Pelagibacter)-like Alphaproteobacteria. This research shows that while different tributaries of large river systems such as the Mississippi River harbor distinct bacterioplankton communities, there is also microhabitat variation such as that between free-living and particle-associated assemblages.	2014	10.1128/AEM.01844-14
Ramirez, KS; Leff, JW; Barberan, A; Bates, ST; Betley, J; Crowther, TW; Kelly, EF; Oldfield, EE; Shaw, EA; Steenbock, C; Bradford, MA; Wall, DH; Fierer, N	Biogeographic patterns in below-ground diversity in New York Citys Central Park are similar to those observed globally	PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY B-BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES	Soil biota play key roles in the functioning of terrestrial ecosystems, however, compared to our knowledge of above-ground plant and animal diversity, the biodiversity found in soils remains largely uncharacterized. Here, we present an assessment of soil biodiversity and biogeographic patterns across Central Park in New York City that spanned all three domains of life, demonstrating that even an urban, managed system harbours large amounts of undescribed soil biodiversity. Despite high variability across the Park, below-ground diversity patterns were predictable based on soil characteristics, with prokaryotic and eukaryotic communities exhibiting overlapping biogeographic patterns. Further, Central Park soils harboured nearly as many distinct soil microbial phylotypes and types of soil communities as we found in biomes across the globe (including arctic, tropical and desert soils). This integrated cross-domain investigation highlights that the amount and patterning of novel and uncharacterized diversity at a single urban location matches that observed across natural ecosystems spanning multiple biomes and continents.	2014	10.1098/rspb.2014.1988
Freimann, R; Burgmann, H; Findlay, SEG; Robinson, CT	Spatio-Temporal Patterns of Major Bacterial Groups in Alpine Waters	PLOS ONE	Glacial alpine landscapes are undergoing rapid transformation due to changes in climate. The loss of glacial ice mass has directly influenced hydrologic characteristics of alpine floodplains. Consequently, hyporheic sediment conditions are likely to change in the future as surface waters fed by glacial water (kryal) become groundwater dominated (krenal). Such environmental shifts may subsequently change bacterial community structure and thus potential ecosystem functioning. We quantitatively investigated the structure of major bacterial groups in glacial and groundwater-fed streams in three alpine floodplains during different hydrologic periods. Our results show the importance of several physico-chemical variables that reflect local geological characteristics as well as water source in structuring bacterial groups. For instance, Alpha-, Betaproteobacteria and Cytophaga-Flavobacteria were influenced by pH, conductivity and temperature as well as by inorganic and organic carbon compounds, whereas phosphorous compounds and nitrate showed specific influence on single bacterial groups. These results can be used to predict future bacterial group shifts, and potential ecosystem functioning, in alpine landscapes under environmental transformation.	2014	10.1371/journal.pone.0113524
Prevost-Boure, NC; Dequiedt, S; Thioulouse, J; Lelievre, M; Saby, NPA; Jolivet, C; Arrouays, D; Plassart, P; Lemanceau, P; Ranjard, L	Similar Processes but Different Environmental Filters for Soil Bacterial and Fungal Community Composition Turnover on a Broad Spatial Scale	PLOS ONE	Spatial scaling of microorganisms has been demonstrated over the last decade. However, the processes and environmental filters shaping soil microbial community structure on a broad spatial scale still need to be refined and ranked. Here, we compared bacterial and fungal community composition turnovers through a biogeographical approach on the same soil sampling design at a broad spatial scale (area range: 13300 to 31000 km(2)): i) to examine their spatial structuring; ii) to investigate the relative importance of environmental selection and spatial autocorrelation in determining their community composition turnover; and iii) to identify and rank the relevant environmental filters and scales involved in their spatial variations. Molecular fingerprinting of soil bacterial and fungal communities was performed on 413 soils from four French regions of contrasting environmental heterogeneity (Landes<Burgundy <= Brittany<<South-East) using the systematic grid of French Soil Quality Monitoring Network to evaluate the communities composition turnovers. The relative importance of processes and filters was assessed by distance-based redundancy analysis. This study demonstrates significant community composition turnover rates for soil bacteria and fungi, which were dependent on the region. Bacterial and fungal community composition turnovers were mainly driven by environmental selection explaining from 10% to 20% of community composition variations, but spatial variables also explained 3% to 9% of total variance. These variables highlighted significant spatial autocorrelation of both communities unexplained by the environmental variables measured and could partly be explained by dispersal limitations. Although the identified filters and their hierarchy were dependent on the region and organism, selection was systematically based on a common group of environmental variables: pH, trophic resources, texture and land use. Spatial autocorrelation was also important at coarse (80 to 120 km radius) and/or medium (40 to 65 km radius) spatial scales, suggesting dispersal limitations at these scales.	2014	10.1371/journal.pone.0111667
Kilias, ES; Nothig, EM; Wolf, C; Metfies, K	Picoeukaryote Plankton Composition off West Spitsbergen at the Entrance to the Arctic Ocean	JOURNAL OF EUKARYOTIC MICROBIOLOGY	Investigation of marine eukaryotic picoplankton composition is limited by missing morphological features for appropriate identification. Consequently, molecular methods are required. In this study, we used 454-pyrosequencing to study picoplankton communities at four stations in the West Spitsbergen Current (WSC; Fram Strait). High abundances of Micromonas pusilla were detected in the station situated closest to Spitsbergen, as seen in surveys of picoplankton assemblages in the Beaufort Sea. At the other three stations, other phylotypes, affiliating with Phaeocystis pouchetii and Syndiniales in the phylogenetic tree, were present in high numbers, dominating most of them. The picoplankton community structures at three of the stations, all with similar salinity and temperature, were alike. At the fourth station, the influence of the East Spitsbergen Current, transporting cold water from the Barents Sea around Spitsbergen, causes different abiotic parameters that result in a significantly different picoeukaryote community composition, which is dominated by M. pusilla. This observation is particularly interesting with regard to ongoing environmental changes in the Arctic. Ongoing warming of the WSC could convey a new picoplankton assemblage into the Arctic Ocean, which may come to affect the dominance of M. pusilla.	2014	10.1111/jeu.12134
Ju, LH; Yang, J; Liu, LM; Wilkinson, DM	Diversity and Distribution of Freshwater Testate Amoebae (Protozoa) Along Latitudinal and Trophic Gradients in China	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Freshwater microbial diversity is subject to multiple stressors in the Anthropocene epoch. However, the effects of climate changes and human activities on freshwater protozoa remain poorly understood. In this study, the diversity and distribution of testate amoebae from the surface sediments were investigated in 51 Chinese lakes and reservoirs along two gradients, latitude and trophic status. A total of 169 taxa belonging to 24 genera were identified, and the most diverse and dominant genera were Difflugia (78 taxa), Centropyxis (26 taxa) and Arcella (12 taxa). Our analysis revealed that biomass of testate amoebae decreased significantly along the latitudinal gradient, while Shannon-Wiener indices and species richness presented an opposite trend (P < 0.05). The relationship of diversity and latitude is, we suspect, an artifact of the altitudinal distribution of our sites. Furthermore, biomass-based Shannon-Wiener index and species richness of testate amoebae were significantly unimodally related to trophic status (P < 0.05). This is the first large-scale study showing the effects of latitude and trophic status on diversity and distribution of testate amoebae in China. Therefore, our results provide valuable baseline data on testate amoebae and contribute to lake management and our understanding of the large-scale global patterns in microorganism diversity.	2014	10.1007/s00248-014-0442-1
Tian, YQ; Gao, LH	Bacterial Diversity in the Rhizosphere of Cucumbers Grown in Soils Covering a Wide Range of Cucumber Cropping Histories and Environmental Conditions	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Rhizosphere microorganisms in soils are important for plant growth. However, the importance of rhizosphere microorganisms is still underestimated since many microorganisms associated with plant roots cannot be cultured and since the microbial diversity in the rhizosphere can be influenced by several factors, such as the cropping history, biogeography, and agricultural practice. Here, we characterized the rhizosphere bacterial diversity of cucumber plants grown in soils covering a wide range of cucumber cropping histories and environmental conditions by using pyrosequencing of bacterial 16S rRNA genes. We also tested the effects of compost addition and/or bacterial inoculation on the bacterial diversity in the rhizosphere. We identified an average of approximately 8,883 reads per sample, corresponding to around 4,993 molecular operational taxonomic units per sample. The Proteobacteria was the most abundant phylum in almost all soils. The abundances of the phyla Bacteroidetes, Actinobacteria, Firmicutes, Acidobacteria, and Verrucomicrobia varied among the samples, and together with Proteobacteria, these phyla were the six most abundant phyla in almost all analyzed samples. Analyzing all the sample libraries together, the predominant genera found were Flavobacterium, Ohtaekwangia, Opitutus, Gp6, Steroidobacter, and Acidovorax. Overall, compost and microbial amendments increased shoot biomass when compared to untreated soils. However, compost addition decreased the bacterial alpha-diversity in most soils (but for three soils compost increased diversity), and no statistical effect of microbial amendment on the bacterial alpha-diversity was found. Moreover, soil amendments did not significantly influence the bacterial beta-diversity. Soil organic content appeared more important than compost and microbial amendments in shaping the structure of bacterial communities in the rhizosphere of cucumber.	2014	10.1007/s00248-014-0461-y
Siciliano, SD; Palmer, AS; Winsley, T; Lamb, E; Bissett, A; Brown, MV; van Dorst, J; Ji, MK; Ferrari, BC; Grogan, P; Chu, HY; Snape, I	Soil fertility is associated with fungal and bacterial richness, whereas pH is associated with community composition in polar soil microbial communities	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	Microbial activities in Arctic and Antarctic soils are of particular interest due to uncertainty surrounding the fate of the enormous polar soil organic matter (SOM) pools and the potential to lose unique and vulnerable micro-organisms from these ecosystems. We quantified richness, evenness and taxonomic composition of both fungi and bacteria in 223 Arctic and Antarctic soil samples across 8 locations to test the global applicability of hypotheses concerning edaphic drivers of soil microbial communities that have been primarily developed from studies of bacteria in temperate and tropical systems. We externally validated our models conclusions with an independent dataset comprising 33 Arctic heath samples. We also explored if our system was responding to large scale climatic or biogeographical processes that we had not measured by evaluating model stability for one location, Mitchell Pennisula, that had been extensively sampled. Soil Fertility (defined as organic matter, nitrogen and chloride content) was the most important edaphic property associated with measures of a-diversity such as microbial richness and evenness (especially for fungi), whereas pH was primarily associated with measures of beta-diversity such as phylogenetic structure and diversity (especially for bacteria). Surprisingly, phosphorus emerged as consistently the second most important driver of all facets of microbial community structure for both fungi and bacteria. Despite the clear importance of edaphic factors in controlling microbial communities, our analyses also indicated that fungal/bacterial interactions play a major, but causally unclear, role in structuring the soil microbial communities of which they are a part. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2014	10.1016/j.soilbio.2014.07.005
Cao, Y; Wang, ET; Zhao, L; Chen, WM; Wei, GH	Diversity and distribution of rhizobia nodulated with Phaseolus vulgaris in two ecoregions of China	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	To reveal the diversity and geographic distribution of bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) rhizobia in China, a total of 226 strains of nodule bacteria were isolated from bean plants grown in fields of nine sites in northern (ecoregion I) and southern (ecoregion II) regions of China, with soil pH ranged from 8.06 to 4.97. Based upon the phylogenies of housekeeping and symbiotic genes, 96.9% of the isolates were Rhizobium corresponding to four defined species and four unnamed genospecies, while the remaining were five Bradyrhizobium genospecies. Rhizobium leguminosarum, Rhizobium etli and Rhizobium sp. II or IV were dominant in different ecoregions, with varied relative abundances. Therefore, diverse and distinctive bean rhizobial communities exist in different ecoregions of China, demonstrating that the introduction of bean plants has driven the evolution of rhizobia to fit the necessity to nodulate the host plant under the local conditions, mainly the soil pH and the nutrient availability. The predominance of R. etli and the high similarities in the symbiotic genes (nodC and nifH) of all the Rhizobium genospecies with R. etli evidenced that symbiotic genes were transferred from R. etli, possibly introduced to China accompanying the seeds, to the related indigenous rhizobia. These findings enlarged the diversity of bean rhizobia, evidenced the biogeographic patterns of these rhizobia, and demonstrated the possible evolution and emerging of novel rhizobia under the combined selection of host plant and soil conditions. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2014	10.1016/j.soilbio.2014.07.026
Fonseca, VG; Carvalho, GR; Nichols, B; Quince, C; Johnson, HF; Neill, SP; Lambshead, JD; Thomas, WK; Power, DM; Creer, S	Metagenetic analysis of patterns of distribution and diversity of marine meiobenthic eukaryotes	GLOBAL ECOLOGY AND BIOGEOGRAPHY	AimMeiofaunal communities that inhabit the marine benthos offer unique opportunities to simultaneously study the macroecology of numerous phyla that exhibit different life-history strategies. Here, we ask: (1) if the macroecology of meiobenthic communities is explained mainly by dispersal constraints or by environmental conditions; and (2) if levels of meiofaunal diversity surpass existing estimates based on morphological taxonomy. LocationUK and mainland European coast. MethodsNext-generation sequencing techniques (NGS; Roche 454 FLX platform) using 18S nuclear small subunit ribosomal DNA (rDNA) gene. Pyrosequences were analysed using AmpliconNoise followed by chimera removal using Perseus. ResultsRarefaction curves revealed that sampling saturation was only reached at 15% of sites, highlighting that the bulk of meiofaunal diversity is yet to be discovered. Overall, 1353 OTUs were recovered and assigned to 23 different phyla. The majority of sampled sites had c. 60-70 unique operational taxonomic units (OTUs) per site, indicating high levels of beta diversity. The environmental parameters that best explained community structure were seawater temperature, geographical distance and sediment size, but most of the variability (R-2=70%-80%) remains unexplained. Main conclusionsHigh percentages of endemic OTUs suggest that meiobenthic community composition is partly niche-driven, as observed in larger organisms, but also shares macroecological features of microorganisms by showing high levels of cosmopolitanism (albeit on a much smaller scale). Meiobenthic communities exhibited patterns of isolation by distance as well as associations between niche, latitude and temperature, indicating that meiobenthic communities result from a combination of niche assembly and dispersal processes. Conversely, isolation-by-distance patterns were not identified in the featured protists, suggesting that animals and protists adhere to radically different macroecological processes, linked to life-history strategies.	2014	10.1111/geb.12223
Araujo, ASF; Borges, CD; Tsai, SM; Cesarz, S; Eisenhauer, N	Soil bacterial diversity in degraded and restored lands of Northeast Brazil	ANTONIE VAN LEEUWENHOEK INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF GENERAL AND MOLECULAR MICROBIOLOGY	Land degradation deteriorates biological productivity and affects environmental, social, and economic sustainability, particularly so in the semiarid region of Northeast Brazil. Although some studies exist reporting gross measures of soil microbial parameters and processes, limited information is available on how land degradation and restoration strategies influence the diversity and composition of soil microbial communities. In this study we compare the structure and diversity of bacterial communities in degraded and restored lands in Northeast Brazil and determine the soil biological and chemical properties influencing bacterial communities. We found that land degradation decreased the diversity of soil bacteria as indicated by both reduced operational taxonomic unit (OTU) richness and Shannon index. Soils under native vegetation and restoration had significantly higher bacterial richness and diversity than degraded soils. Redundancy analysis revealed that low soil bacterial diversity correlated with a high respiratory quotient, indicating stressed microbial communities. By contrast, soil bacterial communities in restored land positively correlated with high soil P levels. Importantly, however, we found significant differences in the soil bacterial community composition under native vegetation and in restored land, which may indicate differences in their functioning despite equal levels of bacterial diversity.	2014	10.1007/s10482-014-0258-5
Crowther, TW; Maynard, DS; Crowther, TR; Peccia, J; Smith, JR; Bradford, MA	Untangling the fungal niche: the trait-based approach	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Fungi are prominent components of most terrestrial ecosystems, both in terms of biomass and ecosystem functioning, but the hyper-diverse nature of most communities has obscured the search for unifying principles governing community organization. In particular, unlike plants and animals, observational studies provide little evidence for the existence of niche processes in structuring fungal communities at broad spatial scales. This limits our capacity to predict how communities, and their functioning, vary across landscapes. We outline how a shift in focus, from taxonomy toward functional traits, might prove to be valuable in the search for general patterns in fungal ecology. We build on theoretical advances in plant and animal ecology to provide an empirical framework for a trait-based approach in fungal community ecology. Drawing upon specific characteristics of the fungal system, we highlight the significance of drought stress and combat in structuring free-living fungal communities. We propose a conceptual model to formalize how trade-offs between stress-tolerance and combative dominance are likely to organize communities across environmental gradients. Given that the survival of a fungus in a given environment is contingent on its ability to tolerate antagonistic competitors, measuring variation in combat trait expression along environmental gradients provides a means of elucidating realized, from fundamental niche spaces. We conclude that, using a trait-based understanding of how niche processes structure fungal communities across time and space, we can ultimately link communities with ecosystem functioning. Our trait-based framework highlights fundamental uncertainties that require testing in the fungal system, given their potential to uncover general mechanisms in fungal ecology.	2014	10.3389/fmicb.2014.00579
Lau, MCY; Cameron, C; Magnabosco, C; Brown, CT; Schilkey, F; Grim, S; Hendrickson, S; Pullin, M; Lollar, BS; van Heerden, E; Kieft, TL; Onstott, TC	Phylogeny and phylogeography of functional genes shared among seven terrestrial subsurface metagenomes reveal N-cycling and microbial evolutionary relationships	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Comparative studies on community phylogenetics and phylogeography of microorganisms living in extreme environments are rare. Terrestrial subsurface habitats are valuable for studying microbial biogeographical patterns due to their isolation and the restricted dispersal mechanisms. Since the taxonomic identity of a microorganism does not always correspond well with its functional role in a particular community, the use of taxonomic assignments or patterns may give limited inference on how microbial functions are affected by historical, geographical and environmental factors. With seven metagenomic libraries generated from fracture water samples collected from five South African mines, this study was carried out to (1) screen for ubiquitous functions or pathways of biogeochemical cycling of CH4, S, and N; (2) to characterize the biodiversity represented by the common functional genes; (3) to investigate the subsurface biogeography as revealed by this subset of genes; and (4) to explore the possibility of using metagenomic data for evolutionary study. The ubiquitous functional genes are NarV, NPD, PAPS reductase, NifH, NifD, NifK, NifE, and NifN genes. Although these eight common functional genes were taxonomically and phylogenetically diverse and distinct from each other, the dissimilarity between samples did not correlate strongly with geographical or environmental parameters or residence time of the water. Por genes homologous to those of Thermodesulfovibrio yellowstonii detected in all metagenomes were deep lineages of Nitrospirae, suggesting that subsurface habitats have preserved ancestral genetic signatures that inform the study of the origin and evolution of prokaryotes.	2014	10.3389/fmicb.2014.00531
Wietz, M; Millan-Aguinaga, N; Jensen, PR	CRISPR-Cas systems in the marine actinomycete Salinispora: linkages with phage defense, microdiversity and biogeography	BMC GENOMICS	Background: Prokaryotic CRISPR-Cas systems confer resistance to viral infection and thus mediate bacteria-phage interactions. However, the distribution and functional diversity of CRISPRs among environmental bacteria remains largely unknown. Here, comparative genomics of 75 Salinispora strains provided insight into the diversity and distribution of CRISPR-Cas systems in a cosmopolitan marine actinomycete genus. Results: CRISPRs were found in all Salinispora strains, with the majority containing multiple loci and different Cas array subtypes. Of the six subtypes identified, three have not been previously described. A lower prophage frequency in S. arenicola was associated with a higher fraction of spacers matching Salinispora prophages compared to S. tropica, suggesting differing defensive capacities between Salinispora species. The occurrence of related prophages in strains from distant locations, as well as spacers matching those prophages inserted throughout spacer arrays, indicate recurring encounters with widely distributed phages over time. Linkages of CRISPR features with Salinispora microdiversity pointed to subclade-specific contacts with mobile genetic elements (MGEs). This included lineage-specific spacer deletions or insertions, which may reflect weak selective pressures to maintain immunity or distinct temporal interactions with MGEs, respectively. Biogeographic patterns in spacer and prophage distributions support the concept that Salinispora spp. encounter localized MGEs. Moreover, the presence of spacers matching housekeeping genes suggests that CRISPRs may have functions outside of viral defense. Conclusions: This study provides a comprehensive examination of CRISPR-Cas systems in a broadly distributed group of environmental bacteria. The ubiquity and diversity of CRISPRs in Salinispora suggests that CRISPR-mediated interactions with MGEs represent a major force in the ecology and evolution of this cosmopolitan marine actinomycete genus.	2014	10.1186/1471-2164-15-936
Sherwood, AR; Carlile, AL; Neumann, JM; Kociolek, JP; Johansen, JR; Lowe, RL; Conklin, KY; Presting, GG	The Hawaiian freshwater algae biodiversity survey (2009-2014): systematic and biogeographic trends with an emphasis on the macroalgae	BMC ECOLOGY	Background: A remarkable range of environmental conditions is present in the Hawaiian Islands due to their gradients of elevation, rainfall and island age. Despite being well known as a location for the study of evolutionary processes and island biogeography, little is known about the composition of the non-marine algal flora of the archipelago, its degree of endemism, or affinities with other floras. We conducted a biodiversity survey of the non-marine macroalgae of the six largest main Hawaiian Islands using molecular and microscopic assessment techniques. We aimed to evaluate whether endemism or cosmopolitanism better explain freshwater algal distribution patterns, and provide a baseline data set for monitoring future biodiversity changes in the Hawaiian Islands. Results: 1,786 aquatic and terrestrial habitats and 1,407 distinct collections of non-marine macroalgae were collected from the islands of Kauai, Oahu, Molokai, Maui, Lanai and Hawaii from the years 2009-2014. Targeted habitats included streams, wet walls, high elevation bogs, taro fields, ditches and flumes, lakes/reservoirs, cave walls and terrestrial areas. Sites that lacked freshwater macroalgae were typically terrestrial or wet wall habitats that were sampled for diatoms and other microalgae. Approximately 50% of the identifications were of green algae, with lesser proportions of diatoms, red algae, cyanobacteria, xanthophytes and euglenoids. 898 DNA sequences were generated representing eight different markers, which enabled an assessment of the number of taxonomic entities for genera collected as part of the survey. Forty-four well-characterized taxa were assessed for global distribution patterns. This analysis revealed no clear biogeographic affinities of the flora, with 27.3% characterized as cosmopolitan, 11.4% endemic, and 61.3% as intermediate. Conclusions: The Hawaiian freshwater algal biodiversity survey represents the first comprehensive effort to characterize the non-marine algae of a tropical region in the world using both morphological and molecular tools. Survey data were entered in the Hawaiian Freshwater Algal Database, which serves as a digital repository of photographs and micrographs, georeferenced localities and DNA sequence data. These analyses yielded an updated checklist of the non-marine macroalgae of the Hawaiian Islands, and revealed varied biogeographic affinities of the flora that are likely a product of both natural and anthropogenic dispersal.	2014	10.1186/s12898-014-0028-2
Barreto, DP; Conrad, R; Klose, M; Claus, P; Enrich-Prast, A	Distance-Decay and Taxa-Area Relationships for Bacteria, Archaea and Methanogenic Archaea in a Tropical Lake Sediment	PLOS ONE	The study of of the distribution of microorganisms through space (and time) allows evaluation of biogeographic patterns, like the species-area index (z). Due to their high dispersal ability, high reproduction rates and low rates of extinction microorganisms tend to be widely distributed, and they are thought to be virtually cosmopolitan and selected primarily by environmental factors. Recent studies have shown that, despite these characteristics, microorganisms may behave like larger organisms and exhibit geographical distribution. In this study, we searched patterns of spatial diversity distribution of bacteria and archaea in a contiguous environment. We collected 26 samples of a lake sediment, distributed in a nested grid, with distances between samples ranging from 0.01 m to 1000 m. The samples were analyzed using T-RFLP (Terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism) targeting mcrA (coding for a subunit of methyl-coenzyme M reductase) and the genes of Archaeal and Bacterial 16S rRNA. From the qualitative and quantitative results (relative abundance of operational taxonomic units) we calculated the similarity index for each pair to evaluate the taxa-area and distance decay relationship slopes by linear regression. All results were significant, with mcrA genes showing the highest slope, followed by Archaeal and Bacterial 16S rRNA genes. We showed that the microorganisms of a methanogenic community, that is active in a contiguous environment, display spatial distribution and a taxa-area relationship.	2014	10.1371/journal.pone.0110128
Burgsdorf, I; Erwin, PM; Lopez-Legentil, S; Cerrano, C; Haber, M; Frenk, S; Steindler, L	Biogeography rather than association with cyanobacteria structures symbiotic microbial communities in the marine sponge Petrosia ficiformis	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	The sponge Petrosia ficiformis is ubiquitous in the Mediterranean Sea and Eastern Atlantic Ocean, hosting a diverse assemblage of bacteria, including, in illuminated sites, cyanobacteria. Two closely related sponge color morphs have been described, one inside caves and at their entrance (white/pink), and one on the rocky cliffs (violet). The presence of the different morphs and their ubiquity in the Mediterranean (from North-West to South-East) provides an opportunity to examine which factors mostly affect the associated microbial communities in this species: (i) presence of phototrophic symbionts or (ii) biogeography. 16S rRNA gene tag pyrosequencing data of the microbial communities revealed that Chloroflexi, Gammaproteobacteria, and Acidobacteria dominated the bacterial communities of all sponges analyzed. Chlorophyll a content, TEM observations and DNA sequence data confirmed the presence of the cyanobacterium Synechococcus feldmannii in violet and pink morphs of P ficiformis and their absence in white color morphs. Rather than cyanobacterial symbionts (i.e., color morphs) accounting for variability in microbial symbiont communities, a biogeographic trend was observed between P ficiformis collected in Israel and Italy. Analyses of partial 18S rRNA and mitochondrial cytochrome c oxidase subunit I (COX1) gene sequences revealed consistent genetic divergence between the violet and pink-white morphotypes of P ficiformis. Overall, data indicated that microbial symbiont communities were more similar in genetically distinct P ficiformis from the same location, than genetically similar P ficiformis from distant locations.	2014	10.3389/fmicb.2014.00529
DeLong, EF	Alien Invasions and Gut Island Biogeography	CELL	Animals harbor gut microbiota characteristic of the host and diet of origin. Whether bacteria from diverse nonindigenous origins successfully invade foreign gut habitats is not well known. Now, Seedorf et al. show that microbiota from a variety of disparate habitats can successfully colonize and compete in the mammalian gut environment.	2014	10.1016/j.cell.2014.09.043
Linneman, J; Paulus, D; Lim-Fong, G; Lopanik, NB	Latitudinal Variation of a Defensive Symbiosis in the Bugula neritina (Bryozoa) Sibling Species Complex	PLOS ONE	Mutualistic relationships are beneficial for both partners and are often studied within a single environment. However, when the range of the partners is large, geographical differences in selective pressure may shift the relationship outcome from positive to negative. The marine bryozoan Bugula neritina is a colonial invertebrate common in temperate waters worldwide. It is the source of bioactive polyketide metabolites, the bryostatins. Evidence suggests that an uncultured vertically transmitted symbiont, Candidatus Endobugula sertula, hosted by B. neritina produces the bryostatins, which protect the vulnerable larvae from predation. Studies of B. neritina along the North American Atlantic coast revealed a complex of two morphologically similar sibling species separated by an apparent biogeographic barrier: the Type S sibling species was found below Cape Hatteras, North Carolina, while Type N was found above. Interestingly, the Type N colonies lack Ca. Endobugula sertula and, subsequently, defensive bryostatins; their documented northern distribution was consistent with traditional biogeographical paradigms of latitudinal variation in predation pressure. Upon further sampling of B. neritina populations, we found that both host types occur in wider distribution, with Type N colonies living south of Cape Hatteras, and Type S to the north. Distribution of the symbiont, however, was not restricted to Type S hosts. Genetic and microscopic evidence demonstrates the presence of the symbiont in some Type N colonies, and larvae from these colonies are endowed with defensive bryostatins and contain Ca. Endobugula sertula. Molecular analysis of the symbiont from Type N colonies suggests an evolutionarily recent acquisition, which is remarkable for a symbiont thought to be transmitted only vertically. Furthermore, most Type S colonies found at higher latitudes lack the symbiont, suggesting that this host-symbiont relationship is more flexible than previously thought. Our data suggest that the symbiont, but not the host, is restricted by biogeographical boundaries.	2014	10.1371/journal.pone.0108783
Oh, J; Byrd, AL; Deming, C; Conlan, S; Kong, HH; Segre, JA	Biogeography and individuality shape function in the human skin metagenome	NATURE	The varied topography of human skin offers a unique opportunity to study how the bodys microenvironments influence the functional and taxonomic composition of microbial communities. Phylogenetic marker gene-based studies have identified many bacteria and fungi that colonize distinct skin niches. Here metagenomic analyses of diverse body sites in healthy humans demonstrate that local biogeography and strong individuality define the skin microbiome. We developed a relational analysis of bacterial, fungal and viral communities, which showed not only site specificity but also individual signatures. We further identified strain-level variation of dominant species as heterogeneous and multiphyletic. Reference-free analyses captured the uncharacterized metagenome through the development of a multi-kingdom gene catalogue, which was used to uncover genetic signatures of species lacking reference genomes. This work is foundational for human disease studies investigating inter-kingdom interactions, metabolic changes and strain tracking, and defines the dual influence of biogeography and individuality on microbial composition and function.	2014	10.1038/nature13786
Rubio-Portillo, E; Souza-Egipsy, V; Ascaso, C; Murillo, AD; Ramos-Espla, AA; Anton, J	Eukarya associated with the stony coral Oculina patagonica from the Mediterranean Sea	MARINE GENOMICS	Oculina patagonica is a putative alien scleractinian coral from the Southwest Atlantic that inhabits across the Mediterranean Sea. Here, we have addressed the diversity of Eukarya associated with this coral and its changes related to the environmental conditions and coral status. A total of 46 colonies of O. patagonica were taken from Alicante coast (Spain) and Pietra Ligure coast (Italy) and analyzed using denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) of the small-subunit 18S rRNA and 16S plastid rRNA genes, internal transcribed spacer region 2 (ITS 2) analyses, and electron microscopy. Our results show that Eukarya and plastid community associated to O. patagonica change with environmental conditions and coral status. Cryptic species, which can be difficult to identify by optical methods, were distinguished by 18S rRNA gene DGGE: the barnacle Megatrema anglicum, which was detected at two locations, and two boring sponges related to Cliona sp. and Siphonodictyon coralliphagum detected in samples from Tabarca and Alicante Harbour, respectively. Eukaryotic phototrophic community from the skeletal matrix of healthy corals was dominated by Ochrosphaera sp. while bleached corals from the Harbour and Tabarca were associated to different uncultured phototrophic organism. Differences in ultrastructural morphologies of the zooxanthellae between healthy and bleached corals were observed. Nevertheless, no differences were found in Symbiodinium community among time, environments, coral status and location, showing that O. patagonica hosted only one genotype of Symbiodinium belonging to clade B2. The fact that this clade has not been previously detected in other Mediterranean corals and is more frequent in the tropical Western Atlantic, is a new evidence that O. patagonica is an alien species in the Mediterranean Sea. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2014	10.1016/j.margen.2014.06.002
Jiang, WB; Zhu, JQ; Chen, MH; Yang, QC; Du, X; Chen, SY; Zhang, LN; Yu, YM; Yu, WD	Wolbachia infection status and genetic structure in natural populations of Polytremis nascens (Lepidoptera: Hesperiidae)	INFECTION GENETICS AND EVOLUTION	The maternally inherited obligate bacteria Wolbachia is known for infecting the reproductive tissues of a wide range of arthropods. In this study, we surveyed Wolbachia infections in Polytremis nascens (Lepidoptera: Hesperiidae) from 14 locations in China by amplifying the 16S rRNA gene with a nested PCR method and revealed the effect of Wolbachia on host mitochondrial DNA. The results show that 31% (21/67) are Wolbachia positive among all specimens and mainly prevails in southern populations in China. No significant difference in the prevalence is found between the sexes. Notably, the nucleotide diversity of Wolbachia infected butterflies is smaller compared to that of uninfected butterflies. The mitochondrial DNA of infected group appear to be not evolving neutrally (Tajimas D value = -2.3303 and Fus F values = -3.7068). The analysis of molecular variance shows significant differentiation of mitochondrial haplotypes between infected and uninfected specimens (FST = 0.6064). The mismatch analysis speculated the different expansion pattern in Wolbachia infected specimens and all P. nascens specimens. These results suggest that the populations of P. nascens may have recently been subjected to a Wolbachia-induced sweep. Additionally, phylogenetic analysis differentiated the mitochondrial haplotypes of P. nascens into three major clades. The clades are in perfect agreement with the pattern of Wolbachia infection. One of the clades grouped with the butterflies infected with Wolbachia. The remaining two clades grouped with uninfected butterflies from the central-west of China populations and Eastern and Southern China populations respectively, which are isolated mainly by the Yangtze River. The analysis of haplotype networks, geographic distribution and population size change shows that Haplotype 1 in central-west of China is the ancestral haplotype and the populations of P. nascens are expanded. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2014	10.1016/j.meegid.2014.07.026
Tsiknia, M; Paranychianakis, NV; Varouchakis, EA; Moraetis, D; Nikolaidis, NP	Environmental drivers of soil microbial community distribution at the Koiliaris Critical Zone Observatory	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Data on soil microbial community distribution at large scales are limited despite the important information that could be drawn with regard to their function and the influence of environmental factors on nutrient cycling and ecosystem services. This study investigates the distribution of Archaea, Bacteria and Fungi as well as the dominant bacterial phyla (Acidobacteria, Actinobacteria, Bacteroidetes, Firmicutes), and classes of Proteobacteria (Alpha- and Betaproteobacteria) across the Koiliaris watershed by qPCR and associate them with environmental variables. Predictive maps of microorganisms distribution at watershed scale were generated by co-kriging, using the most significant predictors. Our findings showed that 31-79% of the spatial variation in microbial taxa abundance could be explained by the parameters measured, with total organic carbon and pH being identified as the most important. Moreover, strong correlations were set between microbial groups and their inclusion on variance explanation improved the prediction power of the models. The spatial autocorrelation of microbial groups ranged from 309 to 2.226m, and geographic distance, by itself, could explain a high proportion of their variation. Our findings shed light on the factors shaping microbial communities at a high taxonomic level and provide evidence for ecological coherence and syntrophic interactions at the watershed scale.	2014	10.1111/1574-6941.12379
Dini-Andreote, F; Silva, MDPE; Triado-Margarit, X; Casamayor, EO; van Elsas, JD; Salles, JF	Dynamics of bacterial community succession in a salt marsh chronosequence: evidences for temporal niche partitioning	ISME JOURNAL	The mechanisms underlying community assembly and promoting temporal succession are often overlooked in microbial ecology. Here, we studied an undisturbed salt marsh chronosequence, spanning over a century of ecosystem development, to understand bacterial succession in soil. We used 16S rRNA gene-based quantitative PCR to determine bacterial abundance and multitag 454 pyrosequencing for community composition and diversity analyses. Despite 10-fold lower 16S rRNA gene abundances, the initial stages of soil development held higher phylogenetic diversities than the soil at late succession. Temporal variations in phylogenetic beta-diversity were greater at initial stages of soil development, possibly as a result of the great dynamism imposed by the daily influence of the tide, promoting high immigration rates. Allogenic succession of bacterial communities was mostly driven by shifts in the soil physical structure, as well as variations in pH and salinity, which collectively explained 84.5% of the variation concerning community assemblage. The community assembly data for each successional stage were integrated into a network co-occurrence analysis, revealing higher complexity at initial stages, coinciding with great dynamism in turnover and environmental variability. Contrary to a spatial niche-based perspective of bacterial community assembly, we suggest temporal niche partitioning as the dominant mechanism of assembly (promoting more phylotype co-occurrence) in the initial stages of succession, where continuous environmental change results in the existence of multiple niches over short periods of time.	2014	10.1038/ismej.2014.54
Constancias, F; Prevost-Boure, NC; Terrat, S; Aussems, S; Nowak, V; Guillemin, JP; Bonnotte, A; Biju-Duval, L; Navel, A; Martins, JMF; Maron, PA; Ranjard, L	Microscale evidence for a high decrease of soil bacterial density and diversity by cropping	AGRONOMY FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT	Soil microbes play major agricultural functions such as the transformation of soil organic matter into plant fertilizers. The effects of agricultural practices on soil microbes at the scale of plots, from meters to hectare, are well documented. However, the impact at soil microscale, from micrometers to millimeters, is much less known. Therefore, we studied bacterial community density and diversity at microscale in crop soil under grassland, tillage, and no tillage. We fractionated macroaggregates, from 2,000 to 250 mu m and from 250 to 63 mu m; microaggregates, from 63-20 mu m and 20-2 mu m; and clay particles, lower than 2 mu m. We measured the bacterial density and diversity by real-time PCR and 454-pyrosequencing of 16S rRNA genes of soil DNA, respectively. Results show that bacterial density and diversity were heterogeneous among size aggregates. Tillage decreased bacterial density from 22 to 74 %, and diversity from 4 to 11 %, and changed taxonomic groups in micro- and macroaggregates. This change led to the homogenization of bacterial communities and is explained by a higher protection of microaggregates. As a consequence, microaggregates contained similar bacterial communities whatever the land management is, whereas strong differences were observed between communities inhabiting macroaggregates. These findings demonstrate that bacterial diversity in microaggregates was mainly controlled by historical contingency, whereas bacterial communities in macroaggregates are shaped by contemporary perturbations. Our findings thus revealed unprecedented insights of the effect of agriculture on soil microbes. Potential applications include using crop management options that preserve macroaggregate structure to promote soil heterogeneity and therefore microbial diversity.	2014	10.1007/s13593-013-0204-3
Yao, Y; Wang, R; Lu, JK; Sui, XH; Wang, ET; Chen, WX	Genetic Diversity and Evolution of Bradyrhizobium Populations Nodulating Erythrophleum fordii, an Evergreen Tree Indigenous to the Southern Subtropical Region of China	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	The nodulation of Erythrophleum fordii has been recorded recently, but its microsymbionts have never been studied. To investigate the diversity and biogeography of rhizobia associated with this leguminous evergreen tree, root nodules were collected from the southern subtropical region of China. A total of 166 bacterial isolates were obtained from the nodules and characterized. In a PCR-based restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) analysis of ribosomal intergenic sequences, the isolates were classified into 22 types within the genus Bradyrhizobium. Sequence analysis of 16S rRNA, ribosomal intergenic spacer (IGS), and the housekeeping genes recA and glnII classified the isolates into four groups: the Bradyrhizobium elkanii and Bradyrhizobium pachyrhizi groups, comprising the dominant symbionts, Bradyrhizobium yuanmingense, and an unclassified group comprising the minor symbionts. The nodC and nifH phylogenetic trees defined five or six lineages among the isolates, which was largely consistent with the definition of genomic species. The phylogenetic results and evolutionary analysis demonstrated that mutation and vertical transmission of genes were the principal processes for the divergent evolution of Bradyrhizobium species associated with E. fordii, while lateral transfer and recombination of housekeeping and symbiotic genes were rare. The distribution of the dominant rhizobial populations was affected by soil pH and effective phosphorus. This is the first report to characterize E. fordii rhizobia.	2014	10.1128/AEM.01595-14
Gerardo, NM; Parker, BJ	Mechanisms of symbiont-conferred protection against natural enemies: an ecological and evolutionary framework	CURRENT OPINION IN INSECT SCIENCE	Many vertically-transmitted microbial symbionts protect their insect hosts from natural enemies, including host-targeted pathogens and parasites, and those vectored by insects to other hosts. Protection is often achieved through production of inhibiting toxins, which is not surprising given that toxin production mediates competition in many environments. Classical models of macroecological interactions, however, demonstrate that interspecific competition can be less direct, and recent research indicates that symbiont-protection can be mediated through exploitation of limiting resources, and through activation of host immune mechanisms that then suppress natural enemies. Available data, though limited, suggest that effects of symbionts on vectored pathogens and parasites, as compared to those that are host-targeted, are more likely to result from symbiont activation of the host immune system. We discuss these different mechanisms in light of their potential impact on the evolution of host physiological processes.	2014	10.1016/j.cois.2014.08.002
Hu, YJ; Xiang, D; Veresoglou, SD; Chen, FL; Chen, YL; Hao, ZP; Zhang, X; Chen, BD	Soil organic carbon and soil structure are driving microbial abundance and community composition across the arid and semi-arid grasslands in northern China	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	Microbial biogeography through the study of the assembly rules of microbes has the potential to yield ecological information that is generalizable for a wide range of microorganisms. Here we performed a large-scale field investigation of the distribution patterns of microbes across the arid and semi-arid grassland ecosystems covering an area of 690,000 km(2) in northern China. Soil microbial abundance and community composition were examined through quantifying microbial phospholipid fatty acids (PLFAs) at fifty sampling sites along environmental gradients. A multi-model inference analysis identified soil organic carbon (SOC) as a key driving factor for microbial biomass and quantified its effect. Structural equation models (SEM) were further fitted to the data to provide a better mechanistic resolution of direct and indirect pathways that connected PLFAs and environmental variables. The SEM analysis also supported that SOC was the main positive predictor of microbial biomass, while MAT served as the main negative factor via an indirect pathway. To visualize complex relationships between microbial community and environmental variables we engaged in a redundancy analysis. The result showed that PLFA profiles could be largely explained by the soil variables including soil structure (PSD) and pH. Overall, our report through the analysis of an unprecedented amount of primary data yields unique insights into the relative importance of abiotic factors in shaping microbial communities at large scales. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2014	10.1016/j.soilbio.2014.06.014
Peay, KG; Bruns, TD	Spore dispersal of basidiomycete fungi at the landscape scale is driven by stochastic and deterministic processes and generates variability in plant-fungal interactions	NEW PHYTOLOGIST	Fungi play an important role in plant communities and ecosystem function. As a result, variation in fungal community composition can have important consequences for plant fitness. However, there are relatively few empirical data on how dispersal might affect fungal communities and the ecological processes they mediate. We established sampling stations across a large area of coastal landscape varying in their spatial proximity to each other and contrasting vegetation types. We measured dispersal of spores from a key group of fungi, the Basidomycota, across this landscape using qPCR and 454 pyrosequencing. We also measured the colonization of ectomycorrhizal fungi at each station using sterile bait seedlings. We found a high degree of spatial and temporal variability in the composition of Basidiomycota spores. This variability was in part stochastic and in part explained by spatial proximity to other vegetation types and time of year. Variation in spore community also affected colonization by ectomycorrhizal fungi and seedling growth. Our results demonstrate that fungal host and habitat specificity coupled with dispersal limitation can lead to local variation in fungal community structure and plant-fungal interactions. Understanding fungal communities also requires explicit knowledge of landscape context in addition to local environmental conditions.	2014	10.1111/nph.12906
Reichstein, M; Bahn, M; Mahecha, MD; Kattge, J; Baldocchi, DD	Linking plant and ecosystem functional biogeography	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	Classical biogeographical observations suggest that ecosystems are strongly shaped by climatic constraints in terms of their structure and function. On the other hand, vegetation function feeds back on the climate system via biosphere-atmosphere exchange of matter and energy. Ecosystem-level observations of this exchange reveal very large functional biogeographical variation of climate-relevant ecosystem functional properties related to carbon and water cycles. This variation is explained insufficiently by climate control and a classical plant functional type classification approach. For example, correlations between seasonal carbon-use efficiency and climate or environmental variables remain below 0.6, leaving almost 70% of variance unexplained. We suggest that a substantial part of this unexplained variation of ecosystem functional properties is related to variations in plant and microbial traits. Therefore, to progress with global functional biogeography, we should seek to understand the link between organismic traits and flux-derived ecosystem properties at ecosystem observation sites and the spatial variation of vegetation traits given geoecological covariates. This understanding can be fostered by synergistic use of both data-driven and theory-driven ecological as well as biophysical approaches.	2014	10.1073/pnas.1216065111
Kembel, SW; OConnor, TK; Arnold, HK; Hubbell, SP; Wright, SJ; Green, JL	Relationships between phyllosphere bacterial communities and plant functional traits in a neotropical forest	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	The phyllosphere-the aerial surfaces of plants, including leaves-is a ubiquitous global habitat that harbors diverse bacterial communities. Phyllosphere bacterial communities have the potential to influence plant biogeography and ecosystem function through their influence on the fitness and function of their hosts, but the host attributes that drive community assembly in the phyllosphere are poorly understood. In this study we used high-throughput sequencing to quantify bacterial community structure on the leaves of 57 tree species in a neotropical forest in Panama. We tested for relationships between bacterial communities on tree leaves and the functional traits, taxonomy, and phylogeny of their plant hosts. Bacterial communities on tropical tree leaves were diverse; leaves from individual trees were host to more than 400 bacterial taxa. Bacterial communities in the phyllosphere were dominated by a core microbiome of taxa including Actinobacteria, Alpha-, Beta-, and Gammaproteobacteria, and Sphingobacteria. Host attributes including plant taxonomic identity, phylogeny, growth and mortality rates, wood density, leaf mass per area, and leaf nitrogen and phosphorous concentrations were correlated with bacterial community structure on leaves. The relative abundances of several bacterial taxa were correlated with suites of host plant traits related to major axes of plant trait variation, including the leaf economics spectrum and the wood density-growth/mortality tradeoff. These correlations between phyllosphere bacterial diversity and host growth, mortality, and function suggest that incorporating information on plant-microbe associations will improve our ability to understand plant functional biogeography and the drivers of variation in plant and ecosystem function.	2014	10.1073/pnas.1216057111
Giovannoni, S; Nemergut, D	Microbes ride the current	SCIENCE		2014	10.1126/science.1259467
Hellweger, FL; van Sebille, E; Fredrick, ND	Biogeographic patterns in ocean microbes emerge in a neutral agent-based model	SCIENCE	A key question in ecology and evolution is the relative role of natural selection and neutral evolution in producing biogeographic patterns. We quantify the role of neutral processes by simulating division, mutation, and death of 100,000 individual marine bacteria cells with full 1 million-base-pair genomes in a global surface ocean circulation model. The model is run for up to 100,000 years and output is analyzed using BLAST (Basic Local Alignment Search Tool) alignment and metagenomics fragment recruitment. Simulations show the production and maintenance of biogeographic patterns, characterized by distinct provinces subject to mixing and periodic takeovers by neighbors (coalescence), after which neutral evolution reestablishes the province and the patterns reorganize. The emergent patterns are substantial (e. g., down to 99.5% DNA identity between North and Central Pacific provinces) and suggest that microbes evolve faster than ocean currents can disperse them. This approach can also be used to explore environmental selection.	2014	10.1126/science.1254421
Headd, B; Engel, AS	Biogeographic congruency among bacterial communities from terrestrial sulfidic springs	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Terrestrial sulfidic springs support diverse microbial communities by serving as stable conduits for geochemically diverse and nutrient-rich subsurface waters. Microorganisms that colonize terrestrial springs likely originate from groundwater, but may also be sourced from the surface. As such, the biogeographic distribution of microbial communities inhabiting sulfidic springs should be controlled by a combination of spring geochemistry and surface and subsurface transport mechanisms, and not necessarily geographic proximity to other springs. We examined the bacterial diversity of seven springs to test the hypothesis that occurrence of taxonomically similar microbes, important to the sulfur cycle, at each spring is controlled by geochemistry. Complementary Sanger sequencing and 454 pyrosequencing of 16S rRNA genes retrieved five proteobacterial classes, and Bacteroidetes, Chlorobi, Chloroflexi, and Firmicutes phyla from all springs, which suggested the potential for a core sulfidic spring microbiome. Among the putative sulfide-oxidizing groups (Epsilonproteobacteria and Gammaproteobacteria), up to 83% of the sequences from geochemically similar springs clustered together. Abundant populations of Hydrogenimonas-like or Sulfurovum-like spp. (Epsilonproteobacteria) occurred with abundant Thiothrix and Thiofaba spp. (Gammaproteobacteria), but Arcobacter-like and Sulfurimonas spp. (Epsilonproteobacteria) occurred with less abundant gammaproteobacterial populations. These distribution patterns confirmed that geochemistry rather than biogeography regulates bacterial dominance at each spring. Potential biogeographic controls were related to paleogeologic sedimentation patterns that could control long-term microbial transport mechanisms that link surface and subsurface environments. Knowing the composition of a core sulfidic spring microbial community could provide a way to monitor diversity changes if a system is threatened by anthropogenic processes or climate change.	2014	10.3389/fmicb.2014.00473
Lai, QL; Liu, Y; Yuan, J; Du, J; Wang, LP; Sun, FQ; Shao, ZZ	Multilocus Sequence Analysis for Assessment of Phylogenetic Diversity and Biogeography in Thalassospira Bacteria from Diverse Marine Environments	PLOS ONE	Thalassospira bacteria are widespread and have been isolated from various marine environments. Less is known about their genetic diversity and biogeography, as well as their role in marine environments, many of them cannot be discriminated merely using the 16S rRNA gene. To address these issues, in this report, the phylogenetic analysis of 58 strains from seawater and deep sea sediments were carried out using the multilocus sequence analysis (MLSA) based on acsA, aroE, gyrB, mutL, rpoD and trpB genes, and the DNA-DNA hybridization (DDH) and average nucleotide identity (ANI) based on genome sequences. The MLSA analysis demonstrated that the 58 strains were clearly separated into 15 lineages, corresponding to seven validly described species and eight potential novel species. The DDH and ANI values further confirmed the validity of the MLSA analysis and eight potential novel species. The MLSA interspecies gap of the genus Thalassospira was determined to be 96.16-97.12% sequence identity on the basis of the combined analyses of the DDH and MLSA, while the ANIm interspecies gap was 95.76-97.20% based on the in silico DDH analysis. Meanwhile, phylogenetic analyses showed that the Thalassospira bacteria exhibited distribution pattern to a certain degree according to geographic regions. Moreover, they clustered together according to the habitats depth. For short, the phylogenetic analyses and biogeography of the Thalassospira bacteria were systematically investigated for the first time. These results will be helpful to explore further their ecological role and adaptive evolution in marine environments.	2014	10.1371/journal.pone.0106353
Tully, BJ; Sachdeva, R; Heidelberg, KB; Heidelberg, JF	Comparative genomics of planktonic Flavobacteriaceae from the Gulf of Maine using metagenomic data	MICROBIOME	Background: The Gulf of Maine is an important biological province of the Northwest Atlantic with high productivity year round. From an environmental Sanger-based metagenome, sampled in summer and winter, we were able to assemble and explore the partial environmental genomes of uncultured members of the class Flavobacteria. Each of the environmental genomes represents organisms that compose less than 1% of the total microbial metagenome. Results: Four partial environmental genomes were assembled with varying degrees of estimated completeness (37%-84% complete) and were analyzed from a perspective of gathering information regarding niche partitioning between co-occurring organisms. Comparative genomics revealed potentially important niche partitioning genomic variations, including iron transporters and genes associated with cell attachment and polymer degradation. Analysis of large syntenic regions helped reveal potentially ecologically relevant variations for Flavobacteriaceae in the Gulf of Maine, such as arginine biosynthesis, and identify a putative genomic island incorporating novel exogenous genes from the environment. Conclusions: Biogeographic analysis revealed flavobacteria species with distinct abundance patterns suggesting the presence of local blooms relative to the other species, as well as seasonally selected organisms. The analysis of genomic content for the Gulf of Maine Flavobacteria supports the hypothesis of a particle-associated lifestyle and specifically highlights a number of putative coding sequences that may play a role in the remineralization of particulate organic matter. And lastly, analysis of the underlying sequences for each assembled genome revealed seasonal and nonseasonal variants of specific genes implicating a dynamic interaction between individuals within the species.	2014	10.1186/2049-2618-2-34
Donnarumma, F; Bazzicalupo, M; Blazinkov, M; Mengoni, A; Sikora, S; Babic, KH	Biogeography of Sinorhizobium meliloti nodulating alfalfa in different Croatian regions	RESEARCH IN MICROBIOLOGY	Sinorhizobium meliloti is a nitrogen-fixing rhizobium symbiont of legumes, widespread in many temperate environments the high genetic diversity of which enables it to thrive as a symbiont of host legumes and free-living in soil. Soil type, together with geographic differences and host plant genotype, seem to be prominent factors in shaping rhizobial genetic diversity. While a large body of research supports the idea that the genetic structure of free-living microbial taxa exhibits a clear biogeographic pattern, few investigations have been performed on the biogeographic pattern of S. meliloti genotypes in a restricted geographic range. In the present study, a collection of 128 S. meliloti isolates from three different regions in Croatia was investigated to analyze the relationship between genetic diversity, geographic distribution, soil features and isolate phenotypes by using amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) as a genome-wide scanning method. Results obtained led to the conclusion that the genotypes of isolates cluster according to the region of origin and that the differentiation of S. meliloti populations can be mainly ascribed to geographic isolation following an isolation-by-distance model, with a strong distance-decay relationship of genetic similarity with distance, in which local soil conditions are not the major component influencing the isolate phenotypes or their genomic differentiation. (C) 2014 Institut Pasteur. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.	2014	10.1016/j.resmic.2014.06.001
Stevenson, KT; Rader, HB; Alessa, L; Kliskey, AD; Pantoja, A; Clark, M; Smeenk, J	Sustainable Agriculture for Alaska and the Circumpolar North: Part II. Environmental, Geophysical; Biological and Socioeconomic Challenges	ARCTIC	Local agriculture, food security and food supply are limited in Alaska, as well as in much of the circumpolar North. These limitations stem from a suite of challenges that have never been well characterized, categorized, or wholly defined. We identify these challenges as being environmental, geophysical, biological, or socioeconomic in nature, noting that some challenges are interrelated. Additionally, Alaska is expansive, and growing conditions are highly variable across different regions and microclimates of the state. Environmental challenges to Alaskan agriculture are generally linked to high latitude and include strong seasonality, a short growing season, cold temperatures, and unpredictable frosts. Geophysical challenges are characterized by a high percentage of soils that are wet and cold or low in natural fertility. Biological challenges include cultivar adaptability and selection; the control of various pests, weeds, and diseases; and decreased microbial activity in cold soils, which can allow pesticides to linger and slow mineralization of organic fertilizers. Socioeconomic challenges to farming in Alaska are especially limiting and may categorically represent the strongest hindrances to agriculture. They often overlap or interact with many of the identified agro-ecological and biogeographic challenges. Major socioeconomic issues can be a relatively low financial incentive or reward for farmers; inconsistent or limited markets; the high cost of land, infrastructure, and inputs; zoning challenges; a lack of cooperatives; and for rural farmers, time conflicts with more traditional means of subsistence food acquisition. These challenges collectively represent factors that limit agriculture in Alaska, and they-provide a basis and justification for developing more sustainable solutions.	2014	
Lin, W; Bazylinski, DA; Xiao, T; Wu, LF; Pan, YX	Life with compass: diversity and biogeography of magnetotactic bacteria	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Magnetotactic bacteria (MTB) are unique in their ability to synthesize intracellular nano-sized minerals of magnetite and/or greigite magnetosomes for magnetic orientation. Thus, they provide an excellent model system to investigate mechanisms of biomineralization. MTB play important roles in bulk sedimentary magnetism and have numerous versatile applications in paleoenvironmental reconstructions, and biotechnological and biomedical fields. Significant progress has been made in recent years in describing the composition of MTB communities and distribution through innovative cultivation-dependent and -independent techniques. In this review, the most recent contributions to the field of diversity and biogeography of MTB are summarized and reviewed. Emphasis is on the novel insights into various factors/processes potentially affecting MTB community distribution. An understanding of the present-day biogeography of MTB, and the ruling parameters of their spatial distribution, will eventually help us predict MTB community shifts with environmental changes and assess their roles in global iron cycling.	2014	10.1111/1462-2920.12313
Taylor, MW; Tsai, P; Anfang, N; Ross, HA; Goddard, MR	Pyrosequencing reveals regional differences in fruit-associated fungal communities	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	We know relatively little of the distribution of microbial communities generally. Significant work has examined a range of bacterial communities, but the distribution of microbial eukaryotes is less well characterized. Humans have an ancient association with grape vines (Vitis vinifera) and have been making wine since the dawn of civilization, and fungi drive this natural process. While the molecular biology of certain fungi naturally associated with vines and wines is well characterized, complementary investigations into the ecology of fungi associated with fruiting plants is largely lacking. DNA sequencing technologies allow the direct estimation of microbial diversity from a given sample, avoiding culture-based biases. Here, we use deep community pyrosequencing approaches, targeted at the 26S rRNA gene, to examine the richness and composition of fungal communities associated with grapevines and test for geographical community structure among four major regions in New Zealand (NZ). We find over 200 taxa using this approach, which is 10-fold more than previously recovered using culture-based methods. Our analyses allow us to reject the null hypothesis of homogeneity in fungal species richness and community composition across NZ and reveal significant differences between major areas.	2014	10.1111/1462-2920.12456
Yan, J; Han, XZ; Ji, ZJ; Li, Y; Wang, ET; Xie, ZH; Chen, WF	Abundance and Diversity of Soybean-Nodulating Rhizobia in Black Soil Are Impacted by Land Use and Crop Management	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	To investigate the effects of land use and crop management on soybean rhizobial communities, 280 nodule isolates were trapped from 7 fields with different land use and culture histories. Besides the known Bradyrhizobium japonicum, three novel genospecies were isolated from these fields. Grassland (GL) maintained a higher diversity of soybean bradyrhizobia than the other cultivation systems. Two genospecies (Bradyrhizobium spp. I and III) were distributed widely in all treatments, while Bradyrhizobium sp. II was found only in GL treatment. Cultivation with soybeans increased the rhizobial abundance and diversity, except for the soybean monoculture (S-S) treatment. In monoculture systems, soybeans favored Bradyrhizobium sp. I, while maize and wheat favored Bradyrhizobium sp. III. Fertilization decreased the rhizobial diversity indexes but did not change the species composition. The organic carbon (OC) and available phosphorus (AP) contents and pH were the main soil parameters positively correlated with the distribution of Bradyrhizobium spp. I and II and Bradyrhizobium japonicum and negatively correlated with Bradyrhizobium sp. III. These results revealed that different land uses and crop management could not only alter the diversity and abundance of soybean rhizobia, but also change interactions between rhizobia and legume or nonlegume plants, which offered novel information about the biogeography of rhizobia.	2014	10.1128/AEM.01135-14
Hambright, KD; Easton, JD; Zamor, RM; Beyer, J; Easton, AC; Allison, B	Regulation of growth and toxicity of a mixotrophic microbe: implications for understanding range expansion in Prymnesium parvum	FRESHWATER SCIENCE	The rapid range expansion of the toxigenic marine haptophytic alga Prymnesium parvum in inland aquatic systems across the southern USA and beyond has prompted great interest in the ecology and evolutionary biology of this invasive bloom-forming species. Researchers have speculated that increased toxicity and heterotrophy in suboptimal environments allow blooms to develop in these new inland habitats that seem to represent extremes relative to P. parvums perceived optimal niche. We used a laboratory-based study to elucidate the roles of salinity and nutrient availabilities in P. parvum growth and toxicity under environmental conditions representative of hypereutrophic reservoirs of the southwestern USA in which P. parvum blooms are now common. We found evidence that nutrient conditions favoring toxigenesis in P. parvum are suboptimal for growth and bloom formation, whereas conditions conducive to high growth rates are less favorable for toxigenesis. In contrast, both growth and toxicity scaled positively with salinity. Taken in the context of the documented biogeography of P. parvum and that toxigenesis in P. parvum probably evolved in support of heterotrophic nutrient acquisition, our results suggest that P. parvums apparent range expansion into and across the USA is driven by increasing availabilities of salty and nutrient-rich systems, rather than by its toxigenic abilities.	2014	10.1086/677198
Pellissier, L; Niculita-Hirzel, H; Dubuis, A; Pagni, M; Guex, N; Ndiribe, C; Salamin, N; Xenarios, I; Goudet, J; Sanders, IR; Guisan, A	Soil fungal communities of grasslands are environmentally structured at a regional scale in the Alps	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	Studying patterns of species distributions along elevation gradients is frequently used to identify the primary factors that determine the distribution, diversity and assembly of species. However, despite their crucial role in ecosystem functioning, our understanding of the distribution of below-ground fungi is still limited, calling for more comprehensive studies of fungal biogeography along environmental gradients at various scales (from regional to global). Here, we investigated the richness of taxa of soil fungi and their phylogenetic diversity across a wide range of grassland types along a 2800 m elevation gradient at a large number of sites (213), stratified across a region of the Western Swiss Alps (700 km(2)). We used 454 pyrosequencing to obtain fungal sequences that were clustered into operational taxonomic units (OTUs). The OTU diversity-area relationship revealed uneven distribution of fungal taxa across the study area (i.e. not all taxa are everywhere) and fine-scale spatial clustering. Fungal richness and phylogenetic diversity were found to be higher in lower temperatures and higher moisture conditions. Climatic and soil characteristics as well as plant community composition were related to OTU alpha, beta and phylogenetic diversity, with distinct fungal lineages suggesting distinct ecological tolerances. Soil fungi, thus, show lineage-specific biogeographic patterns, even at a regional scale, and follow environmental determinism, mediated by interactions with plants.	2014	10.1111/mec.12854
Treseder, KK; Maltz, MR; Hawkins, BA; Fierer, N; Stajich, JE; McGuire, KL	Evolutionary histories of soil fungi are reflected in their large-scale biogeography	ECOLOGY LETTERS	Although fungal communities are known to vary along latitudinal gradients, mechanisms underlying this pattern are not well-understood. We used high-throughput sequencing to examine the large-scale distributions of soil fungi and their relation to evolutionary history. We tested the Tropical Conservatism Hypothesis, which predicts that ancestral fungal groups should be more restricted to tropical latitudes and conditions than would more recently derived groups. We found support for this hypothesis in that older phyla preferred significantly lower latitudes and warmer, wetter conditions than did younger phyla. Moreover, preferences for higher latitudes and lower precipitation levels were significantly phylogenetically conserved among the six younger phyla, possibly because the older phyla possess a zoospore stage that is vulnerable to drought, whereas the younger phyla retain protective cell walls throughout their life cycle. Our study provides novel evidence that the Tropical Conservatism Hypothesis applies to microbes as well as plants and animals.	2014	10.1111/ele.12311
Li, P; Yang, YH; Han, WX; Fang, JY	Global patterns of soil microbial nitrogen and phosphorus stoichiometry in forest ecosystems	GLOBAL ECOLOGY AND BIOGEOGRAPHY	Aim To investigate broad-scale patterns of soil microbial nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) stoichiometry and their environmental drivers. Location Global forests. Methods By synthesizing 652 observations of soil microbial biomass N and P derived from the published literature, we investigated global patterns of soil microbial N, P and N: P ratios and their relationships with climate, soil and vegetation types. Results Microbial N and P concentrations varied widely among forest types, with relatively low N and P concentrations but high N:P ratios in tropical forests. The N and P concentrations increased and the N:P ratio decreased with increasing latitude (or decreasing temperature). The N:P ratio showed a similar pattern along the precipitation gradient to that along the temperature gradient, whereas microbial N and P displayed weak trends along the precipitation gradient. Edaphic variables also regulated the patterns of microbial N and P stoichiometry: microbial N and P concentrations increased with soil N and P concentrations as well as with soil pH. Mixed-effects models revealed that edaphic factors explained the largest part of the variation in microbial N, P and the N:P ratio, suggesting their dominant role. Main conclusions Our findings highlight that there are broad-scale patterns in microbial N, P and the N:P ratio along the gradients of latitude, temperature and precipitation, which are similar to those reported in plants and soils. The consistency of these patterns in plant-soil-microbe ecosystems supports the hypothesis that P is more often the major limiting element at low latitudes than at high latitudes.	2014	10.1111/geb.12190
Soltani, J; Moghaddam, MSH	Antiproliferative, Antifungal, and Antibacterial Activities of Endophytic Alternaria Species from Cupressaceae	CURRENT MICROBIOLOGY	Recent research has shown the bioprospecting of endophytic fungi from Cupressaceae. Here, we further uncover that the healthy cypress plants such as Cupressus arizonica, Cupressus sempervirens var. cereiformis, and Thuja orientalis host highly bioactive endophytic Alternaria fungal species. Indeed, endophytic Alternaria alternata, Alternaria pellucida, and Alternaria tangelonis were recovered from healthy Cupressaceous trees. Biodiversity and bioactivity of recovered endophytic Alternaria species were a matter of biogeography and host identity. We further extracted such Alternarias metabolites and highlighted their significant antiproliferative, growth inhibitory, and antibacterial activities against the model target fungus Pyricularia oryzae and the model pathogenic bacteria Bacillus sp., Erwinia amylovora, and Pseudomonas syringae. In vitro assays also indicated that endophytic Alternaria species significantly inhibited the growth of cypress fungal phytopathogens Diplodia seriata, Phaeobotryon cupressi, and Spencermartinsia viticola. In conclusion, since the recovered Alternaria species were originally reported as pathogenic and allergenic fungi, our findings suggest a possible ecological niche for them inside the foliar tissues of Cupressaceous trees. Moreover, in this study, the significant bioactivities of endophytic Alternaria species in association with Cupressaceae plant family are reported.	2014	10.1007/s00284-014-0594-8
Kilias, E; Kattner, G; Wolf, C; Frickenhaus, S; Metfies, K	A molecular survey of protist diversity through the central Arctic Ocean	POLAR BIOLOGY	The protist assemblage in the central Arctic Ocean is scarcely surveyed despite them being the major primary producers. Elucidating their response to changing environmental variables requires an a priori analysis of their current diversity, including abundant and rare species. In late summer 2011, samples were collected during the ARK-XXVI/3 expedition (RV Polarstern) to study Arctic protist community structures, by implementation of automated ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis (ARISA) and 454-pyrosequencing. Protist assemblages were related to the hydrology and environmental variables (temperature, salinity, ice coverage, nitrate, phosphate, and silicate). The abundant (a parts per thousand yen1 %) biosphere and rare (< 1 %) biosphere were considered separately in the diversity analysis in order to reveal their mutual relationships. A relation between hydrology and protist community structure was highly supported by ARISA and partially by 454-pyrosequencing. Sea ice showed a stronger influence on the local community structure than nutrient availability, making statements on the water mass influence more difficult. Dinoflagellates (Syndiniales), chlorophytes (Micromonas spp.), and haptophytes (Phaeocystis spp.) were important contributors to the abundant biosphere, while other dinoflagellates and stramenopiles dominated the rare biosphere. No significant correlation was found between the abundant and rare biosphere. However, relative contributions of major taxonomic groups revealed an unexpected stable community structure within the rare biosphere, indicating a potential constant protist reservoir. This study provides a first molecular survey of protist diversity in the central Arctic Ocean, focusing on the diversity and distribution of abundant and rare protists according to the environmental conditions, and can serve as baseline for future analysis.	2014	10.1007/s00300-014-1519-5
Landesman, WJ; Nelson, DM; Fitzpatrick, MC	Soil properties and tree species drive beta-diversity of soil bacterial communities	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	A challenge in ecology and biogeography is to understand the drivers of the composition and distribution of biological communities. Environmental factors (especially pH) and dispersal limitation are thought to exert the primary controls on the composition of soil bacterial communities. However, quantifying their relative importance remains difficult because of analytical uncertainties. For example, the relationship between bacterial community composition and soil pH, which is often nonlinear, is typically evaluated with a linear test and without accounting for variability in rates of turnover along environmental gradients. Furthermore, potential drivers of variation in soil pH, and therefore bacterial community composition, are not commonly analyzed during microbial biogeographical studies. To address these issues we collected 700 soil samples across multiple spatial scales from beneath four late-successional tree species within 12 forests in the eastern United States. We performed high-throughput sequencing of 16S rDNA amplicons and measured soil properties thought to influence soil bacterial composition. Generalized Dissimilarity Modeling, a non-linear form of matrix regression, indicated that geographic distance and soil properties explained 77.3% of the deviance in turnover in overall bacterial community composition. However, only 2.1% of the explained deviance was attributable to geographic distance, indicating little contribution of dispersal limitation to bacterial beta-diversity across scales of similar to 1.7 m to >1000 km. Although 81.7% of the explained deviance in overall bacterial composition was attributable to soil properties, particularly soil pH, the magnitude and rate of compositional turnover varied among bacterial families across the pH gradient. The beta-diversity of three dominant families (Bradyrhizobiaceae, Hyphomicrobiaceae and Burkholderia) was explained by neither soil properties nor geographic distance. Differences in soil pH between certain tree species likely led to distinct bacterial communities at several sites. Thus, shifts in soil pH, potentially as the result of shifts in tree composition, will likely have important consequences for the composition of soil bacterial communities. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2014	10.1016/j.soilbio.2014.05.025
Castro, SA; Escobedo, VM; Aranda, J; Carvallo, GO	Evaluating Darwins Naturalization Hypothesis in Experimental Plant Assemblages: Phylogenetic Relationships Do Not Determine Colonization Success	PLOS ONE	Darwins naturalization hypothesis (DNH) proposes that colonization is less likely when the colonizing species is related to members of the invaded community, because evolutionary closeness intensifies competition among species that share similar resources. Studies that have evaluated DNH from correlational evidence have yielded controversial results with respect to its occurrence and generality. In the present study we carried out a set of manipulative experiments in which we controlled the phylogenetic relatedness of one colonizing species (Lactuca sativa) with five assemblages of plants (the recipient communities), and evaluated the colonizing success using five indicators (germination, growth, flowering, survival, and recruitment). The evolutionary relatedness was calculated as the mean phylogenetic distance between Lactuca and the members of each assemblage (MPD) and by the mean phylogenetic distance to the nearest neighbor (MNND). The results showed that the colonization success of Lactuca was not affected by MPD or MNND values, findings that do not support DNH. These results disagree with experimental studies made with communities of microorganisms, which show an inverse relation between colonization success and phylogenetic distances. We suggest that these discrepancies may be due to the high phylogenetic distance used, since in our experiments the colonizing species (Lactuca) was a distant relative of the assemblage members, while in the other studies the colonizing taxa have been related at the congeneric and conspecific levels. We suggest that under field conditions the phylogenetic distance is a weak predictor of competition, and it has a limited role in determining colonization success, contrary to prediction of the DNH. More experimental studies are needed to establish the importance of phylogenetic distance between colonizing species and invaded community on colonization success.	2014	10.1371/journal.pone.0105535
Nanjappa, D; Audic, S; Romac, S; Kooistra, WHCF; Zingone, A	Assessment of Species Diversity and Distribution of an Ancient Diatom Lineage Using a DNA Metabarcoding Approach	PLOS ONE	Background: Continuous efforts to estimate actual diversity and to trace the species distribution and ranges in the natural environments have gone in equal pace with advancements of the technologies in the study of microbial species diversity from microscopic observations to DNA-based barcoding. DNA metabarcoding based on Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) constitutes the latest advancement in these efforts. Here we use NGS data from different sites to investigate the geographic range of six species of the diatom family Leptocylindraceae and to identify possible new taxa within the family. Methodology/Principal Findings: We analysed the V4 and V9 regions of the nuclear-encoded SSU rDNA gene region in the NGS database of the European ERA-Biodiversa project BioMarKs, collected in plankton and sediments at six coastal sites in European coastal waters, as well as environmental sequences from the NCBI database. All species known in the family Leptocylindraceae were detected in both datasets, but the much larger Illumina V9 dataset showed a higher species coverage at the various sites than the 454 V4 dataset. Sequences identical or similar to the references of Leptocylindrus aporus, L. convexus, L. danicus/hargravesii and Tenuicylindrus belgicus were found in the Mediterranean Sea, North Atlantic Ocean and Black Sea as well as at locations outside Europe. Instead, sequences identical or close to that of L. minimus were found in the North Atlantic Ocean and the Black Sea but not in the Mediterranean Sea, while sequences belonging to a yet undescribed taxon were encountered only in Oslo Fjord and Baffin Bay. Conclusions/Significance: Identification of Leptocylindraceae species in NGS datasets has expanded our knowledge of the species biogeographic distribution and of the overall diversity of this diatom family. Individual species appear to be widespread, but not all of them are found everywhere. Despite the sequencing depth allowed by NGS and the wide geographic area covered by this study, the diversity of this ancient diatom family appears to be low, at least at the level of the marker used in this study.	2014	10.1371/journal.pone.0103810
Alele, PO; Sheil, D; Surget-Groba, Y; Shi, LL; Cannon, CH	How Does Conversion of Natural Tropical Rainforest Ecosystems Affect Soil Bacterial and Fungal Communities in the Nile River Watershed of Uganda?	PLOS ONE	Ugandas forests are globally important for their conservation values but are under pressure from increasing human population and consumption. In this study, we examine how conversion of natural forest affects soil bacterial and fungal communities. Comparisons in paired natural forest and human-converted sites among four locations indicated that natural forest soils consistently had higher pH, organic carbon, nitrogen, and calcium, although variation among sites was large. Despite these differences, no effect on the diversity of dominant taxa for either bacterial or fungal communities was detected, using polymerase chain reaction-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (PCR-DGGE). Composition of fungal communities did generally appear different in converted sites, but surprisingly, we did not observe a consistent pattern among sites. The spatial distribution of some taxa and community composition was associated with soil pH, organic carbon, phosphorus and sodium, suggesting that changes in soil communities were nuanced and require more robust metagenomic methods to understand the various components of the community. Given the close geographic proximity of the paired sampling sites, the similarity between natural and converted sites might be due to continued dispersal between treatments. Fungal communities showed greater environmental differentiation than bacterial communities, particularly according to soil pH. We detected biotic homogenization in converted ecosystems and substantial contribution of beta-diversity to total diversity, indicating considerable geographic structure in soil biota in these forest communities. Overall, our results suggest that soil microbial communities are relatively resilient to forest conversion and despite a substantial and consistent change in the soil environment, the effects of conversion differed widely among sites. The substantial difference in soil chemistry, with generally lower nutrient quantity in converted sites, does bring into question, how long this resilience will last.	2014	10.1371/journal.pone.0104818
Staley, C; Gould, TJ; Wang, P; Phillips, J; Cotner, JB; Sadowsky, MJ	Core functional traits of bacterial communities in the Upper Mississippi River show limited variation in response to land cover	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Taxonomic characterization of environmental microbial communities via high-throughput DNA sequencing has revealed that patterns in microbial biogeography affect community structure. However, shifts in functional diversity related to variation in taxonomic composition are poorly understood. To overcome limitations due to the prohibitive cost of high-depth metagenomic sequencing, tools to infer functional diversity based on phylogenetic distributions of functional traits have been developed. In this study we characterized functional microbial diversity at 11 sites along the Mississippi River in Minnesota using both metagenomic sequencing and functional-inference-based (PICRUSt) approaches. This allowed us to determine how distance and variation in land cover throughout the river influenced the distribution of functional traits, as well as to validate PICRUSt inferences. The distribution and abundance of functional traits, by metagenomic analysis, were similar among sites, with a median standard deviation of 0.0002% among tier 3 functions in KEGG. Overall inferred functional variation was significantly different (P <= 0.035) between two water basins surrounded by agricultural vs. developed land cover, and abundances of bacterial orders that correlated with functional traits by metagenomic analysis were greater where abundances of the trait were inferred to be higher. PICRUSt inferences were significantly correlated (r = 0.147, P = 1.80 x 10(-30)) with metagenomic annotations. Discrepancies between metagenomic and PICRUSt taxonomic-functional relationships, however, suggested potential functional redundancy among abundant and rare taxa that impeded the ability to accurately assess unique functional traits among rare taxa at this sequencing depth. Results of this study suggest that a suite of core functional traits is conserved throughout the river and distributions of functional traits, rather than specific taxa, may shift in response to environmental heterogeneity.	2014	10.3389/fmicb.2014.00414
Al-Najjar, MAA; Ramette, A; Kuhl, M; Hamza, W; Klatt, JM; Polerecky, L	Spatial patterns and links between microbial community composition and function in cyanobacterial mats	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	We imaged reflectance and variable fluorescence in 25 cyanobacterial mats from four distant sites around the globe to assess, at different scales of resolution, spatial variabilities in the physiological parameters characterizing their photosynthetic capacity, including the absorptivity by chlorophyll a (Achi), maximum quantum yield of photosynthesis (Y-max), and light acclimation irradiance (/(k)). Generally, these parameters significantly varied within individual mats on a sub-millimeter scale, with about 2-fold higher variability in the vertical than in the horizontal direction. The average vertical profiles of Ymax and /(k) decreased with depth in the mat, while Achi exhibited a sub-surface maximum. The within-mat variability was comparable to, but often larger than, the between-sites variability, whereas the within-site variabilities (i.e., between samples from the same site) were generally lowest. When compared based on averaged values of their photosynthetic parameters, mats clustered according to their site of origin. Similar clustering was found when the community composition of the mats cyanobacterial layers were compared by automated ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis (ARISA), indicating a significant link between the microbial community composition and function. Although this link is likely the result of community adaptation to the prevailing site-specific environmental conditions, our present data is insufficient to identify the main factors determining these patterns. Nevertheless, this study demonstrates that the spatial variability in the photosynthetic capacity and light acclimation of benthic phototrophic microbial communities is at least as large on a sub-millimeter scale as it is on a global scale, and suggests that this pattern of variability scaling is similar for the microbial community composition.	2014	10.3389/fmicb.2014.00406
Sonthiphand, P; Hall, MW; Neufeld, JD	Biogeography of anaerobic ammonia-oxidizing (anammox) bacteria	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Anaerobic ammonia-oxidizing (anammox) bacteria are able to oxidize ammonia and reduce nitrite to produce N2 gas. After being discovered in a wastewater treatment plant (WWTP), anammox bacteria were subsequently characterized in natural environments, including marine, estuary, freshwater, and terrestrial habitats. Although anammox bacteria play an important role in removing fixed N from both engineered and natural ecosystems, broad scale anammox bacterial distributions have not yet been summarized. The objectives of this study were to explore global distributions and diversity of anammox bacteria and to identify factors that influence their biogeography. Over 6000 anammox 16S rRNA gene sequences from the public database were analyzed in this current study. Data ordinations indicated that salinity was an important factor governing anammox bacterial distributions, with distinct populations inhabiting natural and engineered ecosystems. Gene phylogenies and rarefaction analysis demonstrated that freshwater environments and the marine water column harbored the highest and the lowest diversity of anammox bacteria, respectively. Co-occurrence network analysis indicated that Ca. Scalindua strongly connected with other Ca. Scalindua taxa, whereas Ca. Brocadia co-occurred with taxa from both known and unknown anammox genera. Our survey provides a better understanding of ecological factors affecting anammox bacterial distributions and provides a comprehensive baseline for understanding the relationships among anammox communities in global environments.	2014	10.3389/fmicb.2014.00399
Chi, XL; Tang, ZY; Fang, JY	Patterns of phylogenetic beta diversity in Chinas grasslandsin in relation to geographical and environmental distance	BASIC AND APPLIED ECOLOGY	Patterns and determinants of beta (beta-) diversity can be used to explore the underlying mechanisms regulating community assembly. Despite being the most commonly used measure of beta-diversity, species turnover does not consider the evolutionary differences among species, treating all species equally. Incorporating information on phylogenetic non-independence or relatedness among species in the calculation of beta-diversity may substantially advance our understanding of the ecological and evolutionary mechanisms structuring communities. Here, we investigate the relative influence of geographical distance and differences in environmental conditions (environmental distance) on the phylogenetic beta-diversity between grassland communities expanding 4000 km across the Tibetan Plateau, the Inner Mongolia Plateau and the Xinjiang Autonomous Region in China. Both observed and standardized effect size of phylogenetic beta-diversity were significantly correlated with geographical and environmental distance across all regions. However, the effect of geographical distance on the standardized effect size of phylogenetic beta-diversity disappeared when environmental distance was controlled. We also found that within different regions, the effect of environmental distance on both observed and standardized effect size of phylogenetic beta-diversity was more significant than geographical distance. Among environmental variables, climate played a more important role in shaping observed phylogenetic beta-diversity across and within regions, and standardized effect size of phylogenetic beta-diversity across regions. Soil properties played a more important role in shaping standardized effect size of phylogenetic beta-diversity within regions. The phylogenetic beta-diversity of species from dicot and monocot clades exhibited similar patterns along environmental and geographical distance. The results suggest that at the study scale, phylogeny of grassland communities in China is predominantly structured by environmental filtering, and the dominant environmental factors may be scale-dependent.	2014	10.1016/j.baae.2014.07.003
Kohl, C; Kurth, A	European Bats as Carriers of Viruses with Zoonotic Potential	VIRUSES-BASEL	Bats are being increasingly recognized as reservoir hosts of highly pathogenic and zoonotic emerging viruses (Marburg virus, Nipah virus, Hendra virus, Rabies virus, and coronaviruses). While numerous studies have focused on the mentioned highly human-pathogenic bat viruses in tropical regions, little is known on similar human-pathogenic viruses that may be present in European bats. Although novel viruses are being detected, their zoonotic potential remains unclear unless further studies are conducted. At present, it is assumed that the risk posed by bats to the general public is rather low. In this review, selected viruses detected and isolated in Europe are discussed from our point of view in regard to their human-pathogenic potential. All European bat species and their roosts are legally protected and some European species are even endangered. Nevertheless, the increasing public fear of bats and their viruses is an obstacle to their protection. Educating the public regarding bat lyssaviruses might result in reduced threats to both the public and the bats.	2014	10.3390/v6083110
Kim, HM; Jung, JY; Yergeau, E; Hwang, CY; Hinzman, L; Nam, S; Hong, SG; Kim, OS; Chun, J; Lee, YK	Bacterial community structure and soil properties of a subarctic tundra soil in Council, Alaska	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	The subarctic region is highly responsive and vulnerable to climate change. Understanding the structure of subarctic soil microbial communities is essential for predicting the response of the subarctic soil environment to climate change. To determine the composition of the bacterial community and its relationship with soil properties, we investigated the bacterial community structure and properties of surface soil from the moist acidic tussock tundra in Council, Alaska. We collected 70 soil samples with 25-m intervals between sampling points from 0-10 cm to 10-20 cm depths. The bacterial community was analyzed by pyrosequencing of 16S rRNA genes, and the following soil properties were analyzed: soil moisture content (MC), pH, total carbon (TC), total nitrogen (TN), and inorganic nitrogen (NH4+ and NO3-). The community compositions of the two different depths showed that Alphaproteobacteria decreased with soil depth. Among the soil properties measured, soil pH was the most significant factor correlating with bacterial community in both upper and lower-layer soils. Bacterial community similarity based on jackknifed unweighted UNIFRAC distance showed greater similarity across horizontal layers than through the vertical depth. This study showed that soil depth and pH were the most important soil properties determining bacterial community structure of the subarctic tundra soil in Council, Alaska.	2014	10.1111/1574-6941.12362
Geyer, KM; Altrichter, AE; Takacs-Vesbach, CD; Van Horn, DJ; Gooseff, MN; Barrett, JE	Bacterial community composition of divergent soil habitats in a polar desert	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Edaphic factors such as pH, organic matter, and salinity are often the most significant drivers of diversity patterns in soil bacterial communities. Desert ecosystems in particular are model locations for examining such relationships as food web complexity is low and the soil environment is biogeochemically heterogeneous. Here, we present the findings from a 16S rRNA gene sequencing approach used to observe the differences in diversity and community composition among three divergent soil habitats of the McMurdo Dry Valleys, Antarctica. Results show that alpha diversity is significantly lowered in high pH soils, which contain higher proportions of the phyla Acidobacteria and Actinobacteria, while mesic soils with higher soil organic carbon (and ammonium) content contain high proportions of Nitrospira, a nitrite-oxidizing bacteria. Taxonomic community resolution also had a significant impact on our conclusions, as pH was the primary predictor of phylum-level diversity, while moisture was the most significant predictor of diversity at the genus level. Predictive power also increased with increasing taxonomic resolution, suggesting a potential increase in niche-based drivers of bacterial community composition at such levels.	2014	10.1111/1574-6941.12306
Patzelt, DJ; Hodac, L; Friedl, T; Pietrasiak, N; Johansen, JR	BIODIVERSITY OF SOIL CYANOBACTERIA IN THE HYPER-ARID ATACAMA DESERT, CHILE	JOURNAL OF PHYCOLOGY	The cyanobacterial diversity of soils of the Atacama Desert (Chile) was investigated using 16S rRNA gene cloning/sequencing directly from soil samples and 16S rRNA gene sequencing from unialgal cultures. Within the hyper-arid Atacama Desert, one of the driest parts of the world, 10 sites with differing altitude and distance to the shore were sampled along a total air-line distance (from south to north) of similar to 1,100km. Filamentous cyanobacteria belonging to Nostocophycideae and Synechococcophycideae were present. Oscillatoriophycideae exhibited the highest species richness among the subclasses of cyanobacteria, and included mostly filamentous species along with some coccoids (e.g., Chroococcidiopsis). Thirty species-level phylotypes could be recognized using a cut-off of 99% 16S rRNA sequence similarity within the 22 genera defined at 97% 16S rRNA sequence similarity. Eight of the 30 taxa could be detected by both clonal and culture sequences. Five taxa were observed only in cultures, whereas the cloning approach revealed 17 additional taxa, which might be in the collection but unsequenced, hard-to-cultivate, or entirely unculturable species using standard cultivation media. The Atacama Desert soils have a high diversity of phylotypes, among which are likely both new genera and new species awaiting characterization and description.	2014	10.1111/jpy.12196
Tedersoo, L; Bahram, M; Ryberg, M; Otsing, E; Koljalg, U; Abarenkov, K	Global biogeography of the ectomycorrhizal/sebacina lineage (Fungi, Sebacinales) as revealed from comparative phylogenetic analyses	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	Compared with plants and animals, large-scale biogeographic patterns of microbes including fungi are poorly understood. By the use of a comparative phylogenetic approach and ancestral state reconstructions, we addressed the global biogeography, rate of evolution and evolutionary origin of the widely distributed ectomycorrhizal (EcM) /sebacina lineage that forms a large proportion of the Sebacinales order. We downloaded all publicly available internal transcribed spacer (ITS) sequences and metadata and supplemented sequence information from three genes to construct dated phylogenies and test biogeographic hypotheses. The /sebacina lineage evolved 45-57Myr ago that groups it with relatively young EcM taxa in other studies. The most parsimonious origin for /sebacina is inferred to be North American temperate coniferous forests. Among biogeographic traits, region and biome exhibited stronger phylogenetic signal than host family. Consistent with the resource availability (environmental energy) hypothesis, the ITS region is evolving at a faster rate in tropical than nontropical regions. Most biogeographic regions exhibited substantial phylogenetic clustering suggesting a strong impact of dispersal limitation over a large geographic scale. In northern Holarctic regions, however, phylogenetic distances and phylogenetic grouping of isolates indicate multiple recent dispersal events.	2014	10.1111/mec.12849
Bergmann, RC; Ralebitso-Senior, TK; Thompson, TJU	An RNA-based analysis of changes in biodiversity indices in response to Sus scrofa domesticus decomposition	FORENSIC SCIENCE INTERNATIONAL	Despite emergent research initiatives, significant knowledge gaps remain of soil microbiology-associated cadaver decomposition. Nevertheless, preliminary studies have shown that the vast diversity and complex interactions of soil microbial communities have great potential for forensic applications such as clandestine grave location and postmortem interval estimation. This study investigated changes in soil bacterial communities during pig (Sus scrofa domesticus) leg decomposition. 16S rRNA, instead of the usually applied 16S rDNA marker, was used to compare the metabolically active bacteria. Total bacterial RNA was extracted from soil samples of three different layers on day 3, 28 and 77 after the shallow burial of a pig leg. The V3 region of the 16S rRNA was amplified, analysed by RT-PCR DGGE, and compared with control soil bacterial community profiles. Statistically significant differences in soil bacterial biodiversity were observed. For the control, bacterial diversity (H) and species richness (S) of the three layers averaged 2.48 +/- 0.14 (H) and 18.8 +/- 2.5 (S), respectively, while for the test soil increases (p = 0.027) were recorded between day 3 (H = 2.71 +/- 0.02; S = 21.3 +/- 2.0) and 28 (H = 3.46 +/- 0.32; S = 60.3 +/- 16.9), particularly in the middle (10-20 cm) and bottom (20-30 cm) soil layers. Between day 28 and 77 the diversity and richness then decreased on average for all three layers (H = 3.43 +/- 0.20; S = 60.0 +/- 17.3) but remained higher than on day 3. Thus, responses in soil bacterial profiles and activity to carcass decomposition, detected and characterised by RNA-based DGGE, could be used together with RNA sequencing data, changes in physico-chemical variables (carbon, nitrogen, phosphorus, temperature, redox potential, water activity and pH) and conventional macroecology markers (e. g. insects and vegetation), to develop a suite of analytical protocols for different forensic scenarios. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.	2014	10.1016/j.forsciint.2014.06.001
Lear, G; Bellamy, J; Case, BS; Lee, JE; Buckley, HL	Fine-scale spatial patterns in bacterial community composition and function within freshwater ponds	ISME JOURNAL	The extent to which non-host-associated bacterial communities exhibit small-scale biogeographic patterns in their distribution remains unclear. Our investigation of biogeography in bacterial community composition and function compared samples collected across a smaller spatial scale than most previous studies conducted in freshwater. Using a grid-based sampling design, we abstracted 100+ samples located between 3.5 and 60 m apart within each of three alpine ponds. For every sample, variability in bacterial community composition was monitored using a DNA-fingerprinting methodology (automated ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis) whereas differences in bacterial community function (that is, carbon substrate utilisation patterns) were recorded from Biolog Ecoplates. The exact spatial position and dominant physicochemical conditions (for example, pH and temperature) were simultaneously recorded for each sample location. We assessed spatial differences in bacterial community composition and function within each pond and found that, on average, community composition or function differed significantly when comparing samples located >20 m apart within any pond. Variance partitioning revealed that purely spatial variation accounted for more of the observed variability in both bacterial community composition and function (range: 24-38% and 17-39%) than the combination of purely environmental variation and spatially structured environmental variation (range: 17-32% and 15-20%). Clear spatial patterns in bacterial community composition, but not function were observed within ponds. We therefore suggest that some of the observed variation in bacterial community composition is functionally redundant. We confirm that distinct bacterial communities are present across unexpectedly small spatial scales suggesting that populations separated by distances of >20 m may be dispersal limited, even within the highly continuous environment of lentic water.	2014	10.1038/ismej.2014.21
Tripathi, BM; Lee-Cruz, L; Kim, M; Singh, D; Go, R; Shukor, NAA; Husni, MHA; Chun, J; Adams, JM	Spatial Scaling Effects on Soil Bacterial Communities in Malaysian Tropical Forests	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Spatial scaling to some extent determines biodiversity patterns in larger organisms, but its role in microbial diversity patterns is much less understood. Some studies have shown that bacterial community similarity decreases with distance, whereas others do not support this. Here, we studied soil bacterial communities of tropical rainforest in Malaysia at two spatial scales: a local scale with samples spaced every 5 m over a 150-m transect, and a regional scale with samples 1 to 1,800 km apart. PCR-amplified soil DNA for the bacterial 16S rRNA gene targeting the V1-V3 region was pyrosequenced using Roche/454 GS FLX Titanium platform. A ranked partial Mantel test showed a weak correlation between spatial distance and whole bacterial community dissimilarity, but only at the local scale. In contrast, environmental distance was highly correlated with community dissimilarity at both spatial scales, stressing the greater role of environmental variables rather than spatial distance in determining bacterial community variation at different spatial scales. Soil pH was the only environmental parameter that significantly explained the variance in bacterial community at the local scale, whereas total nitrogen and elevation were additional important factors at the regional scale. We obtained similar results at both scales when only the most abundant OTUs were analyzed. A variance partitioning analysis showed that environmental variables contributed more to bacterial community variation than spatial distance at both scales. In total, our results support a strong influence of the environment in determining bacterial community composition in the rainforests of Malaysia. However, it is possible that the remaining spatial distance effect is due to some of the myriad of other environmental factors which were not considered here, rather than dispersal limitation.	2014	10.1007/s00248-014-0404-7
Le Roux, C; Muller, F; Bouvet, JM; Dreyfus, B; Bena, G; Galiana, A; Ba, AM	Genetic Diversity Patterns and Functional Traits of Bradyrhizobium Strains Associated with Pterocarpus officinalis Jacq. in Caribbean Islands and Amazonian Forest (French Guiana)	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Pterocarpus officinalis Jacq. is a legume tree native to the Caribbean islands and South America growing as a dominant species in swamp forests. To analyze (i) the genetic diversity and (ii) the symbiotic properties of its associated nitrogen-fixing soil bacteria, root nodules were collected from P. officinalis distributed in 16 forest sites of the Caribbean islands and French Guiana. The sequencing of the 16S-23S ribosomal RNA intergenic spacer region (ITS) showed that all bacteria belonged to the Bradyrhizobium genus. Bacteria isolated from insular zones showed very close sequence homologies with Bradyrhizobium genospecies V belonging to the Bradyrhizobium japonicum super-clade. By contrast, bacteria isolated from continental region displayed a larger genetic diversity and belonged to B. elkanii super-clade. Two strains from Puerto Rico and one from French Guiana were not related to any known sequence and could be defined as a new genospecies. Inoculation experiments did not show any host specificity of the Bradyrhizobium strains tested in terms of infectivity. However, homologous Bradyrhizobium sp. strain-P. officinalis provenance associations were more efficient in terms of nodule production, N acquisition, and growth than heterologous ones. The dominant status of P. officinalis in the islands may explain the lower bacterial diversity compared to that found in the continent where P. officinalis is associated with other leguminous tree species. The specificity in efficiency found between Bradyrhizobium strains and host tree provenances could be due to a coevolution process between both partners and needs to be taken in consideration in the framework of rehabilitation plantation programs.	2014	10.1007/s00248-014-0392-7
Dong, J; Shi, F; Li, H; Zhang, XM; Hu, XZ; Gong, J	SSU rDNA Sequence Diversity and Seasonally Differentiated Distribution of Nanoplanktonic Ciliates in Neritic Bohai and Yellow Seas as Revealed by T-RFLP	PLOS ONE	Nanociliates have been frequently found to be important players in the marine microbial loop, however, little is known about their diversity and distribution in coastal ecosystems. We investigated the molecular diversity and distribution patterns of nanoplanktonic oligotrich and choreotrich (OC) ciliates in surface water of three neritic basins of northern China, the South Yellow Sea (SYS), North Yellow Sea (NYS), and Bohai Sea (BS) in June and November 2011. SSU rRNA gene clone libraries generated from three summertime samples (sites B38, B4 and H8) were analyzed and revealed a large novel ribotype diversity, of which many were low-abundant phylotypes belonging to the subclass Oligotrichia, but divergent from described morphospecies. Based on the data of terminal-restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) analysis of all 35 samples, we found that the T-RF richness was generally higher in the SYS than in the BS, and negatively correlated with the molar ratio of P to Si. Overall, multidimensional scaling and permutational multivariate analysis of variance of the community turnover demonstrated a distinct seasonal pattern but no basin-to-basin differentiation across all samples. Nevertheless, significant community differences among basins were recognized in the winter dataset. Mantel tests showed that the environmental factors, P: Si ratio, water temperature and concentration of dissolved oxygen (DO), determined the community across all samples. However, both biogeographic distance and environment shaped the community in winter, with DO being the most important physicochemical factor. Our results indicate that the stoichiometric ratio of P: Si is a key factor, through which the phytoplankton community may be shaped, resulting in a cascade effect on the diversity and community composition of OC nanociliates in the N-rich, Si-limited coastal surface waters, and that the Yellow Sea Warm Current drives the nanociliate community, and possibly the microbial food webs, in the coastal ecosystem in winter.	2014	10.1371/journal.pone.0102640
Kelly, LW; Williams, GJ; Barott, KL; Carlson, CA; Dinsdale, EA; Edwards, RA; Haas, AF; Haynes, M; Lim, YW; McDole, T; Nelson, CE; Sala, E; Sandin, SA; Smith, JE; Vermeij, MJA; Youle, M; Rohwer, F	Local genomic adaptation of coral reef-associated microbiomes to gradients of natural variability and anthropogenic stressors	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	Holobionts are species-specific associations between macro-and microorganisms. On coral reefs, the benthic coverage of coral and algal holobionts varies due to natural and anthropogenic forcings. Different benthic macroorganisms are predicted to have specific microbiomes. In contrast, local environmental factors are predicted to select for specific metabolic pathways in microbes. To reconcile these two predictions, we hypothesized that adaptation of microbiomes to local conditions is facilitated by the horizontal transfer of genes responsible for specific metabolic capabilities. To test this hypothesis, microbial metagenomes were sequenced from 22 coral reefs at 11 Line Islands in the central Pacific that together span a wide range of biogeochemical and anthropogenic influences. Consistent with our hypothesis, the percent cover of major benthic functional groups significantly correlated with particular microbial taxa. Reefs with higher coral cover had a coral microbiome with higher abundances of Alphaproteobacteria (such as Rhodobacterales and Sphingomonadales), whereas microbiomes of algae-dominated reefs had higher abundances of Gammaproteobacteria (such as Alteromonadales, Pseudomonadales, and Vibrionales), Betaproteobacteria, and Bacteriodetes. In contrast to taxa, geography was the strongest predictor of microbial community metabolism. Microbial communities on reefs with higher nutrient availability (e. g., equatorial upwelling zones) were enriched in genes involved in nutrient-related metabolisms (e. g., nitrate and nitrite ammonification, Ton/Tol transport, etc.). On reefs further from the equator, microbes had more genes encoding chlorophyll biosynthesis and photosystems I/II. These results support the hypothesis that core microbiomes are determined by holobiont macroorganisms, and that those core taxa adapt to local conditions by selecting for advantageous metabolic genes.	2014	10.1073/pnas.1403319111
Eren, AM; Borisy, GG; Huse, SM; Welch, JLM	Oligotyping analysis of the human oral microbiome	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	The Human Microbiome Project provided a census of bacterial populations in healthy individuals, but an understanding of the biomedical significance of this census has been hindered by limited taxonomic resolution. A high-resolution method termed oligotyping overcomes this limitation by evaluating individual nucleotide positions using Shannon entropy to identify the most information-rich nucleotide positions, which then define oligotypes. We have applied this method to comprehensively analyze the oral microbiome. Using Human Microbiome Project 16S rRNA gene sequence data for the nine sites in the oral cavity, we identified 493 oligotypes from the V1-V3 data and 360 oligotypes from the V3-V5 data. We associated these oligotypes with species-level taxon names by comparison with the Human Oral Microbiome Database. We discovered closely related oligotypes, differing sometimes by as little as a single nucleotide, that showed dramatically different distributions among oral sites and among individuals. We also detected potentially pathogenic taxa in high abundance in individual samples. Numerous oligotypes were preferentially located in plaque, others in keratinized gingiva or buccal mucosa, and some oligotypes were characteristic of habitat groupings such as throat, tonsils, tongue dorsum, hard palate, and saliva. The differing habitat distributions of closely related oligotypes suggest a level of ecological and functional biodiversity not previously recognized. We conclude that the Shannon entropy approach of oligotyping has the capacity to analyze entire microbiomes, discriminate between closely related but distinct taxa and, in combination with habitat analysis, provide deep insight into the microbial communities in health and disease.	2014	10.1073/pnas.1409644111
Barberan, A; Henley, J; Fierer, N; Casamayor, EO	Structure, inter-annual recurrence, and global-scale connectivity of airborne microbial communities	SCIENCE OF THE TOTAL ENVIRONMENT	Dust coming from the large deserts on Earth, such as the Sahara, can travel long distances and be dispersed over thousands of square kilometers. Remote dust deposition rates are increasing as a consequence of global change and may represent a mechanism for intercontinental microbial dispersal. Remote oligotrophic alpine lakes are particularly sensitive to dust inputs and can serve as sentinels of airborne microbial transport and the ecological consequences of accelerated intercontinental microbial migration. In this study, we applied high-throughput sequencing techniques (16S rRNA amplicon pyrosequencing) to characterize the microbial communities of atmospheric deposition collected in the Central Pyrenees (NE Spain) along three years. Additionally, bacteria from soils in Mauritania and from the air-water interface of high altitude Pyrenean lakes were also examined. Communities in aerosol deposition varied in time with a strong seasonal component of interannual similarity. Communities from the same season tended to resemble more each other than those from different seasons. Samples from disparate dates, in turn, slightly tended to have more dissimilar microbial assemblages (i.e., temporal distance decay), overall suggesting that atmospheric deposition may influence sink habitats in a temporally predictable manner. The three habitats examined (soil, deposition, and air-water interface) harbored distinct microbial communities, although airborne samples collected in the Pyrenees during Saharan dust outbreaks were closer to Mauritian soil samples than those collected during no Saharan dust episodes. The three habitats shared c.a. 1.4% of the total number of microbial sequences in the dataset Such successful immigrants were spread in different bacterial classes. Overall, this study suggests that local and regional features may generate global trends in the dynamics and distribution of airborne microbial assemblages, and that the diversity of viable cells in the high atmosphere is likely higher than previously expected. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2014	10.1016/j.scitotenv.2014.04.030
Li, CP; Lai, QL; Li, GZ; Liu, Y; Sun, FQ; Shao, ZZ	Multilocus Sequence Analysis for the Assessment of Phylogenetic Diversity and Biogeography in Hyphomonas Bacteria from Diverse Marine Environments	PLOS ONE	Hyphomonas, a genus of budding, prosthecate bacteria, are primarily found in the marine environment. Seven type strains, and 35 strains from our collections of Hyphomonas, isolated from the Pacific Ocean, Atlantic Ocean, Arctic Ocean, South China Sea and the Baltic Sea, were investigated in this study using multilocus sequence analysis (MLSA). The phylogenetic structure of these bacteria was evaluated using the 16S rRNA gene, and five housekeeping genes (leuA, clpA, pyrH, gatA and rpoD) as well as their concatenated sequences. Our results showed that each housekeeping gene and the concatenated gene sequence all yield a higher taxonomic resolution than the 16S rRNA gene. The 42 strains assorted into 12 groups. Each group represents an independent species, which was confirmed by virtual DNA-DNA hybridization (DDH) estimated from draft genome sequences. Hyphomonas MLSA interspecies and intraspecies boundaries ranged from 93.3% to 96.3%, similarity calculated using a combined DDH and MLSA approach. Furthermore, six novel species (groups I, II, III, IV, V and XII) of the genus Hyphomonas exist, based on sequence similarities of the MLSA and DDH values. Additionally, we propose that the leuA gene (93.0% sequence similarity across our dataset) alone could be used as a fast and practical means for identifying species within Hyphomonas. Finally, Hyphomonas geographic distribution shows that strains from the same area tend to cluster together as discrete species. This study provides a framework for the discrimination and phylogenetic analysis of the genus Hyphomonas for the first time, and will contribute to a more thorough understanding of the biological and ecological roles of this genus.	2014	10.1371/journal.pone.0101394
Semprucci, F; Balsamo, M	New records and distribution of marine free-living nematodes in the Maldivian Archipelago	PROCEEDINGS OF THE BIOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF WASHINGTON	Biodiversity estimations, in particular in tropical regions, are a useful tool in research focused on the knowledge and conservation of ecosystems. Inferences on the biogeography of marine nematodes are often difficult due to the poor knowledge of the species distribution. In particular, limited information on the composition of the free-living marine nematodes is available from the Indian Ocean and Maldivian Archipelago. This study aims at providing a checklist of the free-living marine nematodes associated with coral sediments of the Maldives. Forty-six species, in 28 genera and 10 families, are newly recorded for the Archipelago, increasing the number of known nematode species to 111, in 79 genera, and 25 families The distribution range of the species is updated, and a noticeable faunistic richness is recorded for the southern archipelago. The presence of six species described first in Maldives by Gerlach and still known only for this region is confirmed. The present synthesis of the faunistic and taxonomic data available so far for the Maldives Islands integrates the global information on the distribution of this phylum and provides information for future interesting comparisons from a zoogeographical perspective.	2014	
Cordeiro, LM; Borghezan, R; Trajano, E	Subterranean biodiversity in the Serra da Bodoquena karst area, Paraguay river basin, Mato Grosso do Sul, Southwestern Brazil	BIOTA NEOTROPICA	We present herein a synthesis of faunistic data from caves in the Serra da Bodoquena karst area, middle Paraguay River basin, Mato Grosso do Sul State. Those include phreatic, submerged and dry caves. Emphasis is given to troglobites (exclusively subterranean species), potentially threatened due to their morphological, physiological and behavioral specializations, associated to generally small distributions. The Bodoquena karst area distinguishes as a spot of high diversity of troglobites, such as trichomycterid and heptapterid catfishes, aquatic planarians and gastropods, arachnids (Eusarcus opilionids, ctenid spiders), Polydesmida diplopods, several collembolans, some insects, and Peracarida crustaceans, which include interesting phylogenetic relicts as spelaeogriphaceans. Four geographic compartments corresponding to microbasins, seemingly with biogeographic importance for the subterranean fauna, are recognized. Phreatobic troglobites (Trichomycterus catfishes, aquatic peracarids, planarians) distribute widely across these compartments and some well beyond (the spelaeogriphacean Potiicoara brasiliensis reaches Mato Grosso state), while those living in base-level streams (Rhamdia and Ancistrus catfishes) and the terrestrial ones, that live in the vadose (aerated zone) are generally restricted to one compartment. Many subterranean ecosystems in Mato Grosso do Sul are endangered by several threats described here and urgent actions for effective protection are required to guarantee a sustainable use of the land and the karst aquifers.	2014	10.1590/1676-06032014011414
Subramanian, J; Satyan, K	Isolation and selection of fluorescent pseudomonads based on multiple plant growth promotion traits and siderotyping	CHILEAN JOURNAL OF AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH	Fluorescent pseudomonads, acclaimed plant associated bacterial group, are well-known plant growth promoting-biocontrol agents in rhizosphere arena. In this study, 144 fluorescent pseudomonad isolates from rhizosphere soil samples were screened with Kings medium B supplemented with 8-hydroxyquinoline (8-HQ) chelator and comprehensively profiled for plant growth promotion viz., production of indole acetic acid (IAA), siderophore, ammonia, hydrogen cyanide, motility, phosphate solubilization, root growth promotion, and biofilm forming ability, along with two known control strains of pseudomonads. Iron and IAA regulated secondary metabolite siderophore production were investigated quantitatively. All isolates were positive for ammonia production and motility; 46% isolates were positive for hydrogen cyanide, 44% shown positivity for phosphate solubilization, and 40% isolates for siderophore production. Siderotyping showed production of hydroxamate type of siderophores which are known to be more efficient biocontrol agents. All isolates stimulated root growth to varying extent and had potentiality to form biofilms, a critical constituent for survival on different environments. Forty-two isolates of pseudomonads showed antagonistic behavior against the deleterious fungal pathogen Fusarium arysporum (MTCC1755). Based on the above observations and statistical analysis, 11 isolates were shortlisted for further scrutiny. The study of biogeographic correlation and secondary metabolite profiling in association with plant growth promotion focalizes significant assessment on the behavior and antagonistic action, which probably brings out a competent biocontrol agent in a sustainable eco-friendly dimension.	2014	10.4067/S0718-58392014000300010
Pagaling, E; Yang, K; Yan, T	Pyrosequencing reveals correlations between extremely acidophilic bacterial communities with hydrogen sulphide concentrations, pH and inert polymer coatings at concrete sewer crown surfaces	JOURNAL OF APPLIED MICROBIOLOGY	Aims: To investigate the acidophilic bacterial communities involved in microbially induced concrete corrosion (MICC). Methods and Results: Our study sites located downstream from a forced main provided a unique opportunity to study the microbial communities involved in MICC under different environmental conditions (gradients of atmospheric H2S, sulphate concentration and pH) and under pipe modifications (coated vs uncoated). Bacterial cell density estimated by both cultivation-and DNA-based methods was low in the corroded sewer samples. Pyrosequencing and cloning showed that Mycobacterium and Acidithiobacillus dominated the acidophilic microbial communities. Methylacidiphilum was also dominant in samples where methane was detected. Correlation analysis indicated that Mycobacterium and Acidithiobacillus were significantly affected by pH and that Mycobacterium could better withstand highly acidic conditions compared to Acidithiobacillus. Conclusions: Communities dominated by Mycobacterium favoured conditions in the lined sewer pipes, while communities with a higher relative abundance of Acidithiobacillus favoured the unlined sewer pipes. Significance and Impact of the Study: Identifying the key micro-organisms involved in MICC and knowing how they interact with their environment are essential aspects for identifying steps towards concrete corrosion management.	2014	10.1111/jam.12491
Delgado-Serrano, L; Lopez, G; Bohorquez, LC; Bustos, JR; Rubiano, C; Osorio-Forero, C; Junca, H; Baena, S; Zambrano, MM	Neotropical Andes hot springs harbor diverse and distinct planktonic microbial communities	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Microbial explorations of hot springs have led to remarkable discoveries and improved our understanding of life under extreme conditions. The Andean Mountains harbor diverse habitats, including an extensive chain of geothermal heated water sources. In this study, we describe and compare the planktonic microbial communities present in five high-mountain hot springs with distinct geochemical characteristics, at varying altitudes and geographical locations in the Colombian Andes. The diversity and structure of the microbial communities were assessed by pyrosequencing the V5 - V6 region of the 16S rRNA gene. The planktonic communities varied in terms of diversity indexes and were dominated by the bacterial phyla Proteobacteria, Aquificae, Chloroflexi, Cyanobacteria, Firmicutes, Nitrospirae, and Thermotogae, with site-specific bacterial taxa also observed in some cases. Statistical analyses showed that these microbial communities were distinct from one another and that they clustered in a manner consistent with physicochemical parameters of the environment sampled. Multivariate analysis suggested that pH and sulfate were among the main variables influencing population structure and diversity. The results show that despite their geographical proximity and some shared geochemical characteristics, there were few shared operational taxonomic units (OTUs) and that community structure was influenced mainly by environmental factors that have resulted in different microbial populations.	2014	10.1111/1574-6941.12333
Chamberlain, SD; Kaplan, KA; Modanu, M; Sirianni, KM; Annandale, S; Hewson, I	Biogeography of planktonic and benthic cyanobacteria in coastal waters of the Big Island, Hawaii	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Cyanobacteria are biogeochemically significant constituents of coral reef ecosystems; however, little is known about biotic and abiotic factors influencing the abundance and composition of cyanobacterial communities in fringing coral reef waters. To understand the patterns of cyanobacterial biogeography in relation to coastal environmental factors, we examined the diversity of planktonic and benthic cyanobacteria at 12 sites along the west coast of Hawaiis Big Island. We found distinct cyanobacterial communities in sediments compared to the water column. In both sediments and water, community structure was strongly related to overall biomass (chlorophyll a concentration), although both these communities corresponded to different sets of biotic/abiotic variables. To examine the influence of freshwater input on planktonic cyanobacterial communities, we conducted a mesocosm experiment where seawater was amended with freshwater from two sources representing high-and low-human population influence. Planktonic cyanobacterial abundance decreased over time in mesocosms, although chlorophyll a concentration significantly increased with time, indicating cyanobacteria were likely outcompeted by other phytoplankton in incubations. Our results show that cyanobacterial community structure may be affected by runoff from terrestrial habitats, but that the composition of cyanobacterial communities inhabiting these locations is also structured by factors not measured in this study.	2014	10.1111/1574-6941.12337
Horn, K; Parker, IM; Malek, W; Rodriguez-Echeverria, S; Parker, MA	Disparate origins of Bradyrhizobium symbionts for invasive populations of Cytisus scoparius (Leguminosae) in North America	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	To identify the geographic origin of nodule bacteria associated with invasion of the European legume Cytisus scoparius in the United States, isolates from 15 sites in six states were compared to > 200 Bradyrhizobium strains from indigenous legumes in the U. S., Mexico, Europe (six countries), Morocco, and Australia. Portions of five housekeeping loci (2849 bp) were sequenced, along with the nifD locus in the symbiosis island (SI) portion of the Bradyrhizobium chromosome. Bayesian phylogenetic analysis showed that North American C. scoparius symbionts had highly heterogeneous ancestry. Some were grouped into three distinct clades of European C. scoparius symbionts. One isolate had both housekeeping and SI genes belonging to a Bradyrhizobium clade from native legumes in western North America. Two other clades had mosaic ancestry: sequences for nifD as well as two other SI genes (nifH, nodC) were highly similar or identical to a C. scoparius strain from Spain, while their housekeeping loci belonged to American Bradyrhizobium clades. Thus, it appears that bacteria ancestrally associated with other North American legumes have evolved to utilize C. scoparius, by acquiring SI-region genes from European C. scoparius symbionts. Inoculation assays indicated that North American isolates were as competent as European strains in promoting plant growth, consistent with the findings on symbiont ancestry.	2014	10.1111/1574-6941.12335
Dunthorn, M; Stoeck, T; Clamp, J; Warren, A; Mahe, F	Ciliates and the Rare Biosphere: A Review	JOURNAL OF EUKARYOTIC MICROBIOLOGY	Here we provide a brief review of the rare biosphere from the perspective of ciliates and other microbial eukaryotes. We trace research on rarity from its lack of much in-depth focus in morphological and Sanger sequencing projects, to its central importance in analyses using high throughput sequencing strategies. The problem that the rare biosphere is potentially comprised of mostly errors is then discussed in the light of asking community-comparative, novel-diversity, and ecosystem-functioning questions.	2014	10.1111/jeu.12121
Wicks, S; Taylor, CM; Luo, M; Blanchard, E; Ribnicky, DM; Cefalu, WT; Mynatt, RL; Welsh, DA	Artemisia supplementation differentially affects the mucosal and luminal ileal microbiota of diet-induced obese mice	NUTRITION	Objective: The gut microbiome has been implicated in obesity and metabolic syndrome; however, most studies have focused on fecal or colonic samples. Several species of Artemisia have been reported to ameliorate insulin signaling both in vitro and in vivo. The aim of this study was to characterize the mucosal and luminal bacterial populations in the terminal ileum with or without supplementation with Artemisia extracts. Methods: Following 4 wk of supplementation with different Artemisia extracts (PMI 5011, Santa or Scopa), diet-induced obese mice were sacrificed and luminal and mucosal samples of terminal ileum were used to evaluate microbial community composition by pyrosequencing of 16 S rDNA hypervariable regions. Results: Significant differences in community structure and membership were observed between luminal and mucosal samples, irrespective of diet group. All Artemisia extracts increased the Bacteroidetes to Firmicutes ratio in mucosal samples. This effect was not observed in the luminal compartment. There was high interindividual variability in the phylogenetic assessments of the ileal microbiota, limiting the statistical power of this pilot investigation. Conclusions: Marked differences in bacterial communities exist depending on the biogeographic compartment in the terminal ileum. Future studies testing the effects of Artemisia or other botanical supplements require larger sample sizes for adequate statistical power. (C) 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.	2014	10.1016/j.nut.2014.02.007
Shi, YW; Yang, HM; Zhang, T; Sun, J; Lou, K	Illumina-based analysis of endophytic bacterial diversity and space-time dynamics in sugar beet on the north slope of Tianshan mountain	APPLIED MICROBIOLOGY AND BIOTECHNOLOGY	Plants harbors complex and variable microbial communities. Endophytic bacteria play an important function and potential role more effectively in developing sustainable systems of crop production. To examine how endophytic bacteria in sugar beet (Beta vulgaris L.) vary across both host growth period and location, PCR-based Illumina was applied to revealed the diversity and stability of endophytic bacteria in sugar beet on the north slope of Tianshan mountain, China. A total of 60.84 M effective sequences of 16S rRNA gene V3 region were obtained from sugar beet samples. These sequences revealed huge amount of operational taxonomic units (OTUs) in sugar beet, that is, 19-121 OTUs in a beet sample, at 3 % cutoff level and sequencing depth of 30,000 sequences. We identified 13 classes from the resulting 449,585 sequences. Alphaproteobacteria were the dominant class in all sugar beets, followed by Acidobacteria, Gemmatimonadetes and Actinobacteria. A marked difference in the diversity of endophytic bacteria in sugar beet for different growth periods was evident. The greatest number of OTUs was detected during rossette formation (109 OTUs) and tuber growth (146 OTUs). Endophytic bacteria diversity was reduced during seedling growth (66 OTUs) and sucrose accumulation (95 OTUs). Forty-three OTUs were common to all four periods. There were more tags of Alphaproteobacteria and Gammaproteobacteria in Shihezi than in Changji. The dynamics of endophytic bacteria communities were influenced by plant genotype and plant growth stage. To the best of our knowledge, this study is the first application of PCR-based Illumina pyrosequencing to characterize and compare multiple sugar beet samples.	2014	10.1007/s00253-014-5720-9
Mueller, RC; Paula, FS; Mirza, BS; Rodrigues, JLM; Nusslein, K; Bohannan, BJM	Links between plant and fungal communities across a deforestation chronosequence in the Amazon rainforest	ISME JOURNAL	Understanding the interactions among microbial communities, plant communities and soil properties following deforestation could provide insights into the long-term effects of land-use change on ecosystem functions, and may help identify approaches that promote the recovery of degraded sites. We combined high-throughput sequencing of fungal rDNA and molecular barcoding of plant roots to estimate fungal and plant community composition in soil sampled across a chronosequence of deforestation. We found significant effects of land-use change on fungal community composition, which was more closely correlated to plant community composition than to changes in soil properties or geographic distance, providing evidence for strong links between above- and below-ground communities in tropical forests.	2014	10.1038/ismej.2013.253
Bonito, G; Reynolds, H; Robeson, MS; Nelson, J; Hodkinson, BP; Tuskan, G; Schadt, CW; Vilgalys, R	Plant host and soil origin influence fungal and bacterial assemblages in the roots of woody plants	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	Microbial communities in plant roots provide critical links between above- and belowground processes in terrestrial ecosystems. Variation in root communities has been attributed to plant host effects and microbial host preferences, as well as to factors pertaining to soil conditions, microbial biogeography and the presence of viable microbial propagules. To address hypotheses regarding the influence of plant host and soil biogeography on root fungal and bacterial communities, we designed a trap-plant bioassay experiment. Replicate Populus, Quercus and Pinus plants were grown in three soils originating from alternate field sites. Fungal and bacterial community profiles in the root of each replicate were assessed through multiplex 454 amplicon sequencing of four loci (i.e., 16S, SSU, ITS, LSU rDNA). Soil origin had a larger effect on fungal community composition than did host species, but the opposite was true for bacterial communities. Populus hosted the highest diversity of rhizospheric fungi and bacteria. Root communities on Quercus and Pinus were more similar to each other than to Populus. Overall, fungal root symbionts appear to be more constrained by dispersal and biogeography than by host availability.	2014	10.1111/mec.12821
Barberan, A; Ramirez, KS; Leff, JW; Bradford, MA; Wall, DH; Fierer, N	Why are some microbes more ubiquitous than others? Predicting the habitat breadth of soil bacteria	ECOLOGY LETTERS	Identifying the traits that determine spatial distributions can be challenging when studying organisms, like bacteria, for which phenotypic information is limited or non-existent. However, genomic data provide another means to infer traits and determine the ecological attributes that account for differences in distributions. We determined the spatial distributions of similar to 124000 soil bacterial taxa across a 3.41km2 area to determine whether we could use phylogeny and/or genomic traits to explain differences in habitat breadth. We found that occupancy was strongly correlated with environmental range; taxa that were more ubiquitous were found across a broader range of soil conditions. Across the similar to 500 taxa for which genomic information was available, genomic traits were more useful than phylogeny alone in explaining the variation in habitat breadth; bacteria with larger genomes and more metabolic versatility were more likely to have larger environmental and geographical distributions. Just as trait-based approaches have proven to be so useful for understanding the distributions of animals and plants, we demonstrate that we can use genomic information to infer microbial traits that are difficult to measure directly and build trait-based predictions of the biogeographical patterns exhibited by microbes.	2014	10.1111/ele.12282
Vilar, AG; van Dam, H; van Loon, EE; Vonk, JA; van Der Geest, HG; Admiraal, W	Eutrophication decreases distance decay of similarity in diatom communities	FRESHWATER BIOLOGY	The distance-decay relationship has been claimed to be a predictor for biological diversity because it unites several ecological phenomena such as dispersal ability and environmental structure. The effect of long-term disturbances on distance decay, however, has been widely overlooked, especially for microorganisms. We examine the effect of eutrophication on the distance-decay relationship in communities of attached diatoms in three peatland areas: mesotrophic, eutrophic and hypertrophic. The study follows a spatially explicit sampling scheme, collecting evenly spaced samples along 6-km sampling tracks. The three areas shared 24% of the total number of species, but the different nutrient levels in the three areas are reflected by the prominence of low profile and planktonic diatom species. Our study demonstrates that eutrophication can affect distance-decay relationships by decreasing turnover rates in microorganisms. Diatom communities are shown to be constrained by both environmental and spatial features, whose relative importance depends on the degree of eutrophication. Under eutrophic conditions, species are filtered from the regional species pool and community structure responds strongly to environmental factors (water chemistry variables and depth), while in mesotrophic environments, purely spatial processes play a prominent role in structuring diatom communities. These findings reveal that homogenisation of communities triggered by environmental disturbance is an ecological phenomenon of importance in the microbial world.	2014	10.1111/fwb.12363
Boehm, AB; Yamahara, KM; Sassoubre, LM	Diversity and Transport of Microorganisms in Intertidal Sands of the California Coast	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Forced by tides and waves, large volumes of seawater are flushed through the beach daily. Organic material and nutrients in seawater are remineralized and cycled as they pass through the beach. Microorganisms are responsible for most of the biogeochemical cycling in the beach; however, few studies have characterized their diversity in intertidal sands, and little work has characterized the extent to which microbes are transported between different compartments of the beach. The present study uses nextgeneration massively parallel sequencing to characterize the microbial community present at 49 beaches along the coast of California. In addition, we characterize the transport of microorganisms within intertidal sands using laboratory column experiments. We identified extensive diversity in the beach sands. Nearly 1,000 unique taxa were identified in sands from 10 or more unique beaches, suggesting the existence of a group of cosmopolitan sand microorganisms. A biogeographical analysis identified a taxon-distance relationship among the beaches. In addition, sands with similar grain size, organic carbon content, exposed to a similar wave climate, and having the same degree of anthropogenic influence tended to have similar microbial communities. Column experiments identified microbes readily mobilized by seawater infiltrating through unsaturated intertidal sands. The ease with which microbes were mobilized suggests that intertidal sands may represent a reservoir of bacteria that seed the beach aquifer where they may partake in biogeochemical cycling.	2014	10.1128/AEM.00513-14
Lopez-Perez, M; Gonzaga, A; Ivanova, EP; Rodriguez-Valera, F	Genomes of Alteromonas australica, a world apart	BMC GENOMICS	Background: Alteromonas is a genus of marine bacteria that is very easy to isolate and grow in the laboratory. There are genomes available of the species Alteromonas macleodii from different locations around the world and an Alteromonas sp. isolated from a sediment in Korea. We have analyzed the genomes of two strains classified by 16S rRNA (>99% similarity) as the recently described species Alteromonas australica, and isolated from opposite ends of the world; A. australica DE170 was isolated in the South Adriatic (Mediterranean) at 1000 m depth while A. australica H17(T) was isolated from a sea water sample collected in St Kilda Beach, Tasman Sea. Results: Although these two strains belong to a clearly different species from A. macleodii, the overall synteny is well preserved and the flexible genomic islands seem to code for equivalent functions and be located at similar positions. Actually the genomes of all the Alteromonas species known to date seem to preserve synteny quite well with the only exception of the sediment isolate SN2. Among the specific metabolic features found for the A. australica isolates there is the degradation of xylan and production of cellulose as extracellular polymeric substance by DE170 or the potential ethanol/methanol degradation by H17(T). Conclusions: The genomes of the two A. australica isolates are not more different than those of strains of A. macleodii isolated from the same sample. Actually the recruitment from metagenomes indicates that all the available genomes are found in most tropical-temperate marine samples analyzed and that they live in consortia of several species and multiple clones within each. Overall the hydrolytic activities of the Alteromonas genus as a whole are impressive and fit with its known capabilities to exploit sudden inputs of organic matter in their environment.	2014	10.1186/1471-2164-15-483
Lewis, LR; Behling, E; Gousse, H; Qian, E; Elphick, CS; Lamarre, JF; Bety, J; Liebezeit, J; Rozzi, R; Goffinet, B	First evidence of bryophyte diaspores in the plumage of transequatorial migrant birds	PEERJ	Correlations between transequatorial migratory bird routes and bipolar biogeographic disjunctions in bryophytes suggest that disjunctions between northern and southern high latitude regions may result from bird-mediated dispersal; supporting evidence is, however, exclusively circumstantial. Birds disperse plant units (diaspores) internally via ingestion (endozoochory) or externally by the attachment of diaspores to the body (ectozoochory). Endozoochory is known to be the primary means of bird-mediated dispersal for seeds and invertebrates at local, regional, and continental scales. Data supporting the role of bird-mediated endozoochory or ectozoochory in the long distance dispersal of bryophytes remain sparse, however, despite the large number of bryophytes displaying bipolar disjunctions. To determine if transequatorial migrant shorebirds may play a role in the ectozoochory of bryophyte diaspores, we developed a method for screening feathers of wild birds. We provide the first evidence of microscopic bryophyte diaspores, as well as those from non-bryophyte lineages, embedded in the plumage of long distance transequatorial migrant birds captured in their arctic breeding grounds. The number of diaspores recovered suggests that entire migratory populations may be departing their northern breeding grounds laden with potentially viable plant parts and that they could thereby play significant roles in bipolar range expansions of lineages previously ignored in the migrant bird dispersal literature.	2014	10.7717/peerj.424
Maranon, E; Cermeno, P; Huete-Ortega, M; Lopez-Sandoval, DC; Mourino-Carballido, B; Rodriguez-Ramos, T	Resource Supply Overrides Temperature as a Controlling Factor of Marine Phytoplankton Growth	PLOS ONE	The universal temperature dependence of metabolic rates has been used to predict how ocean biology will respond to ocean warming. Determining the temperature sensitivity of phytoplankton metabolism and growth is of special importance because this group of organisms is responsible for nearly half of global primary production, sustains most marine food webs, and contributes to regulate the exchange of CO2 between the ocean and the atmosphere. Phytoplankton growth rates increase with temperature under optimal growth conditions in the laboratory, but it is unclear whether the same degree of temperature dependence exists in nature, where resources are often limiting. Here we use concurrent measurements of phytoplankton biomass and carbon fixation rates in polar, temperate and tropical regions to determine the role of temperature and resource supply in controlling the large-scale variability of in situ metabolic rates. We identify a biogeographic pattern in phytoplankton metabolic rates, which increase from the oligotrophic subtropical gyres to temperate regions and then coastal waters. Variability in phytoplankton growth is driven by changes in resource supply and appears to be independent of seawater temperature. The lack of temperature sensitivity of realized phytoplankton growth is consistent with the limited applicability of Arrhenius enzymatic kinetics when substrate concentrations are low. Our results suggest that, due to widespread resource limitation in the ocean, the direct effect of sea surface warming upon phytoplankton growth and productivity may be smaller than anticipated.	2014	10.1371/journal.pone.0099312
Samuni-Blank, M; Izhaki, I; Laviad, S; Bar-Massada, A; Gerchman, Y; Halpern, M	The Role of Abiotic Environmental Conditions and Herbivory in Shaping Bacterial Community Composition in Floral Nectar	PLOS ONE	Identifying the processes that drive community assembly has long been a central theme in ecology. For microorganisms, a traditional prevailing hypothesis states that everything is everywhere, but the environment selects. Although the bacterial community in floral nectar may be affected by both atmosphere (air-borne bacteria) and animals as dispersal vectors, the environmental and geographic factors that shape microbial communities in floral nectar are unknown. We studied culturable bacterial communities in Asphodelus aestivus floral nectar and in its typical herbivorous bug Capsodes infuscatus, along an aridity gradient. Bacteria were sampled from floral nectar and bugs at four sites, spanning a geographical range of 200 km from Mediterranean to semi-arid conditions, under open and bagged flower treatments. In agreement with the niche assembly hypothesis, the differences in bacterial community compositions were explained by differences in abiotic environmental conditions. These results suggest that microbial model systems are useful for addressing macro-ecological questions. In addition, similar bacterial communities were found in the nectar and on the surface of the bugs that were documented visiting the flowers. These similarities imply that floral nectar bacteria dispersal is shaped not only by air borne bacteria and nectar consumers as previously reported, but also by visiting vectors like the mirid bugs.	2014	10.1371/journal.pone.0099107
Robles-Sikisaka, R; Naidu, M; Ly, M; Salzman, J; Abeles, SR; Boehm, TK; Pride, DT	Conservation of streptococcal CRISPRs on human skin and saliva	BMC MICROBIOLOGY	Background: Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats (CRISPRs) are utilized by bacteria to resist encounters with their viruses. Human body surfaces have numerous bacteria that harbor CRISPRs, and their content can provide clues as to the types and features of viruses they may have encountered. Results: We investigated the conservation of CRISPR content from streptococci on skin and saliva of human subjects over 8-weeks to determine whether similarities existed in the CRISPR spacer profiles and whether CRISPR spacers were a stable component of each biogeographic site. Most of the CRISPR sequences identified were unique, but a small proportion of spacers from the skin and saliva of each subject matched spacers derived from previously sequenced loci of S. thermophilus and other streptococci. There were significant proportions of CRISPR spacers conserved over the entire 8-week study period for all subjects, and salivary CRISPR spacers sampled in the mornings showed significantly higher levels of conservation than any other time of day. We also found substantial similarities in the spacer repertoires of the skin and saliva of each subject. Many skin-derived spacers matched salivary viruses, supporting that bacteria of the skin may encounter viruses with similar sequences to those found in the mouth. Despite the similarities between skin and salivary spacer repertoires, the variation present was distinct based on each subject and body site. Conclusions: The conservation of CRISPR spacers in the saliva and the skin of human subjects over the time period studied suggests a relative conservation of the bacteria harboring them.	2014	10.1186/1471-2180-14-146
Brown, MV; Ostrowski, M; Grzymski, JJ; Lauro, FM	A trait based perspective on the biogeography of common and abundant marine bacterioplankton clades	MARINE GENOMICS	Marine microbial communities provide much of the energy upon which all higher trophic levels depend, particularly in open-ocean and oligotrophic systems, and play a pivotal role in biogeochemical cycling. How and why species are distributed in the global oceans, and whether net ecosystem function can be accurately predicted from community composition are fundamental questions for marine scientists. Many of the most abundant clades of marine bacteria, including the Prochlorococcus, Synechococcus, SARI 1, SAR86 and Roseobacter, have a very broad, if not a cosmopolitan distribution. However this is not reflected in an underlying genetic identity. Rather, widespread distribution in these organisms is achieved by the existence of closely related but discrete ecotypes that display niche adaptations. Closely related ecotypes display specific nutritional or energy generating mechanisms and are adapted to different physical parameters including temperature, salinity, and hydrostatic pressure. Furthermore, biotic phenomena such as selective grazing and viral loss contribute to the success or failure of ecotypes allowing some to compete effectively in particular marine provinces but not in others. An additional layer of complexity is added by ocean currents and hydrodynamic specificity of water body masses that bound microbial dispersal and immigration. These vary in space and time with respect to intensity and direction, making the definition of large biogeographic provinces problematic. A deterministic theory aimed at understanding how all these factors shape microbial life in the oceans can only proceed through analysis of microbial traits, rather than pure phylogenetic assessments. Trait based approaches seek mechanistic explanations for the observed temporal and spatial patterns. This review will present successful recent advances in phylogenetic and trait based biogeographic analyses in some of the most abundant marine taxa. (C) 2014 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/).	2014	10.1016/j.margen.2014.03.002
Przybos, E; Tarcz, S; Rautian, M; Lebedeva, N	The first European stand of Paramecium sonneborni (P. aurelia complex), a species known only from North America (Texas, USA)	EUROPEAN JOURNAL OF PROTISTOLOGY	P. aurelia is currently defined as a complex of 15 sibling species including 14 species designated by Sonneborni (1975) and one, P. sonneborni, by Aufderheide et al. (1983). The latter was known from only one stand (Texas, USA). The main reason for the present study was a new stand of Paramecium in Cyprus, with strains recognized as P. sonneborni based on the results of strain crosses, cytological slides, and molecular analyses of three loci (ITS1-5.8S-ITS2-5LSU rDNA, COI, CytB). The new stand of sonneborni in Europe shows that the species, previously considered endemic, may have a wider range. This demonstrates the impact of under-sampling on the knowledge of the biogeography of microbial eukaryotes. Phylogenetic trees based on all the studied fragments revealed that P. sonneborni forms a separate cluster that is closer to P jenningsi and P. schewiakoffi than to the other members of the P. aurelia complex. (C) 2014 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.	2014	10.1016/j.ejop.2014.03.001
Stopnisek, N; Bodenhausen, N; Frey, B; Fierer, N; Eberl, L; Weisskopf, L	Genus-wide acid tolerance accounts for the biogeographical distribution of soil Burkholderia populations	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Bacteria belonging to the genus Burkholderia are highly versatile with respect to their ecological niches and lifestyles, ranging from nodulating tropical plants to causing melioidosis and fatal infections in cystic fibrosis patients. Despite the clinical importance and agronomical relevance of Burkholderia species, information about the factors influencing their occurrence, abundance and diversity in the environment is scarce. Recent findings have demonstrated that pH is the main predictor of soil bacterial diversity and community structure, with the highest diversity observed in neutral pH soils. As many Burkholderia species have been isolated from low pH environments, we hypothesized that acid tolerance may be a general feature of this genus, and pH a good predictor of their occurrence in soils. Using a combination of environmental surveys at trans-continental and local scales, as well as in vitro assays, we show that, unlike most bacteria, Burkholderia species have a competitive advantage in acidic soils, but are outcompeted in alkaline soils. Physiological assays and diversity analysis based on 16S rRNA clone libraries demonstrate that pH tolerance is a general phenotypic trait of the genus Burkholderia. Our results provide a basis for building a predictive understanding of the biogeographical patterns exhibited by Burkholderia sp.	2014	10.1111/1462-2920.12211
Cline, LC; Zak, DR	Dispersal limitation structures fungal community assembly in a long-term glacial chronosequence	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Microbial communities in soil mediate biogeochemical processes; however, understanding forces shaping their composition and function remains a gap in our ecological knowledge. We investigated phylogenetic turnover and functional gene composition of saprotrophic fungi along a 4000-year glacial chronosequence. A direct relationship between -diversity and geographic distance, a proxy for time since deglaciation, indicated that dispersal limitation shapes saprotrophic fungal communities. Further, we infer that dispersal limitation may also influence fungal functional properties as metabolic potential and functional richness increased with site age. Despite attempts to minimize environmental variation, a direct relationship between -diversity and biogeochemical differences across sites indicated that environmental filtering further shapes fungal community composition. However, environmental filtering was overshadowed by the effect of dispersal limitation when tested by multiple regression. Fungal -diversity and composition of functional genes involved in plant litter decay were unrelated, suggesting that functional traits are not phylogenetically conserved across this chronosequence. Our study suggests that dispersal limitation operates in structuring present-day fungal community composition and functional potential. Further, we demonstrate the need to integrate functional and phylogenetic approaches to more accurately portray microbial communities and their functional capacities.	2014	10.1111/1462-2920.12281
Dietrich, M; Wilkinson, DA; Soarimalala, V; Goodman, SM; Dellagi, K; Tortosa, P	Diversification of an emerging pathogen in a biodiversity hotspot: Leptospira in endemic small mammals of Madagascar	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	Biodiversity hotspots and associated endemism are ideal systems for the study of parasite diversity within host communities. Here, we investigated the ecological and evolutionary forces acting on the diversification of an emerging bacterial pathogen, Leptospira spp., in communities of endemic Malagasy small mammals. We determined the infection rate with pathogenic Leptospira in 20 species of sympatric rodents (subfamily Nesomyinae) and tenrecids (family Tenrecidae) at two eastern humid forest localities. A multilocus genotyping analysis allowed the characterization of bacterial diversity within small mammals and gave insights into their genetic relationships with Leptospira infecting endemic Malagasy bats (family Miniopteridae and Vespertilionidae). We report for the first time the presence of pathogenic Leptospira in Malagasy endemic small mammals, with an overall prevalence of 13%. In addition, these hosts harbour species of Leptospira (L.kirschneri, L.borgpetersenii and L.borgpetersenii group B) which are different from those reported in introduced rats (L.interrogans) on Madagascar. The diversification of Leptospira on Madagascar can be traced millions of years into evolutionary history, resulting in the divergence of endemic lineages and strong host specificity. These observations are discussed in relation to the relative roles of endemic vs. introduced mammal species in the evolution and epidemiology of Leptospira on Madagascar, specifically how biodiversity and biogeographical processes can shape community ecology of an emerging pathogen and lead to its diversification within native animal communities.	2014	10.1111/mec.12777
Muller, AL; de Rezende, JR; Hubert, CRJ; Kjeldsen, KU; Lagkouvardos, I; Berry, D; Jorgensen, BB; Loy, A	Endospores of thermophilic bacteria as tracers of microbial dispersal by ocean currents	ISME JOURNAL	Microbial biogeography is influenced by the combined effects of passive dispersal and environmental selection, but the contribution of either factor can be difficult to discern. As thermophilic bacteria cannot grow in the cold seabed, their inactive spores are not subject to environmental selection. We therefore conducted a global experimental survey using thermophilic endospores that are passively deposited by sedimentation to the cold seafloor as tracers to study the effect of dispersal by ocean currents on the biogeography of marine microorganisms. Our analysis of 81 different marine sediments from around the world identified 146 species-level 16S rRNA phylotypes of endospore-forming, thermophilic Firmicutes. Phylotypes showed various patterns of spatial distribution in the world oceans and were dispersal-limited to different degrees. Co-occurrence of several phylotypes in locations separated by great distances (west of Svalbard, the Baltic Sea and the Gulf of California) demonstrated a widespread but not ubiquitous distribution. In contrast, Arctic regions with water masses that are relatively isolated from global ocean circulation (Baffin Bay and east of Svalbard) were characterized by low phylotype richness and different compositions of phylotypes. The observed distribution pattern of thermophilic endospores in marine sediments suggests that the impact of passive dispersal on marine microbial biogeography is controlled by the connectivity of local water masses to ocean circulation.	2014	10.1038/ismej.2013.225
Reveillaud, J; Maignien, L; Eren, AM; Huber, JA; Apprill, A; Sogin, ML; Vanreusel, A	Host-specificity among abundant and rare taxa in the sponge microbiome	ISME JOURNAL	Microbial communities have a key role in the physiology of the sponge host, and it is therefore essential to understand the stability and specificity of sponge-symbiont associations. Host-specific bacterial associations spanning large geographic distance are widely acknowledged in sponges. However, the full spectrum of specificity remains unclear. In particular, it is not known whether closely related sponges host similar or very different microbiota over wide bathymetric and geographic gradients, and whether specific associations extend to the rare members of the sponge microbiome. Using the ultra-deep Illumina sequencing technology, we conducted a comparison of sponge bacterial communities in seven closely related Hexadella species with a well-resolved host phylogeny, as well as of a distantly related sponge Mycale. These samples spanned unprecedentedly large bathymetric (15-960 m) gradients and varying European locations. In addition, this study included a bacterial community analysis of the local background seawater for both Mycale and the widespread deep-sea taxa Hexadella cf. dedritifera. We observed a striking diversity of microbes associated with the sponges, spanning 47 bacterial phyla. The data did not reveal any Hexadella microbiota co-speciation pattern, but confirmed sponge-specific and species-specific host-bacteria associations, even within extremely low abundant taxa. Oligotyping analysis also revealed differential enrichment preferences of closely related Nitrospira members in closely related sponges species. Overall, these results demonstrate highly diverse, remarkably specific and stable sponge-bacteria associations that extend to members of the rare biosphere at a very fine phylogenetic scale, over significant geographic and bathymetric gradients.	2014	10.1038/ismej.2013.227
Rubin-Blum, M; Tsadok, R; Shemesh, E; Goodman-Tchernov, BN; Austin, JA; Coleman, DF; Ben-Avraham, Z; Gruber, DF; Tchernov, D	Distribution of the Lamellibrachia spp. (Siboglinidae, Annelida) and their trophosome endosymbiont phylotypes in the Mediterranean Sea	MARINE BIOLOGY	During the 2010/2011 Exploration vessel Nautilus expedition to the Mediterranean Sea, samples of Lamellibrachia (Siboglinidae, Annelida) were imaged in situ and collected from hydrothermal vent and methane cold seeps. An analysis of these Lamellibrachia and their endosymbiotic thioautotrophic gammaproteobacteria reveals two distinct endosymbiont phylotypes. Phylotype 1 was present in Lamellibrachia specimens from 947 m at the Eratosthenes seamount seep (a seep off Cyprus in the Eastern Mediterranean), and Phylotype 2 was found in siboglinids from 618 m at a hydrothermal vent within Palinuro volcanic complex in Tyrrhenian Sea. Both phylotypes coexist in siboglinids at 1,036 m from the Palmachim disturbance, a cold seep in the Eastern Mediterraneans Levantine basin. Our results, combined with existing knowledge of siboglinid host and endosymbiotic bacteria biogeography, reveal that two major groups of endosymbionts coexist within lamellibranchids and escarpids. The phylogenetic clustering of these bacteria is primarily influenced by geographic location, rather than selection by the siboglinid host.	2014	10.1007/s00227-014-2413-y
Whiteson, KL; Bailey, B; Bergkessel, M; Conrad, D; Delhaes, L; Felts, B; Harris, JK; Hunter, R; Lim, YW; Maughan, H; Quinn, R; Salamon, P; Sullivan, J; Wagner, BD; Rainey, PB	The Upper Respiratory Tract as a Microbial Source for Pulmonary Infections in Cystic Fibrosis: Parallels from Island Biogeography	AMERICAN JOURNAL OF RESPIRATORY AND CRITICAL CARE MEDICINE	A continuously mixed series of microbial communities inhabits various points of the respiratory tract, with community composition determined by distance from colonization sources, colonization rates, and extinction rates. Ecology and evolution theory developed in the context of biogeography is relevant to clinical microbiology and could reframe the interpretation of recent studies comparing communities from lung explant samples, sputum samples, and oropharyngeal swabs. We propose an island biogeography model of the microbial communities inhabiting different niches in human airways. Island biogeography as applied to communities separated by time and space is a useful parallel for exploring microbial colonization of healthy and diseased lungs, with the potential to inform our understanding of microbial community dynamics and the relevance of microbes detected indifferent sample types. In this perspective, we focus on the intermixed microbial communities inhabiting different regions of the airways of patients with cystic fibrosis.	2014	10.1164/rccm.201312-2129PP
Jones, DOB; Yool, A; Wei, CL; Henson, SA; Ruhl, HA; Watson, RA; Gehlen, M	Global reductions in seafloor biomass in response to climate change	GLOBAL CHANGE BIOLOGY	Seafloor organisms are vital for healthy marine ecosystems, contributing to elemental cycling, benthic remineralization, and ultimately sequestration of carbon. Deep-sea life is primarily reliant on the export flux of particulate organic carbon from the surface ocean for food, but most ocean biogeochemistry models predict global decreases in export flux resulting from 21st century anthropogenically induced warming. Here we show that decadal-to-century scale changes in carbon export associated with climate change lead to an estimated 5.2% decrease in future (2091-2100) global open ocean benthic biomass under RCP8.5 (reduction of 5.2 Mt C) compared with contemporary conditions (2006-2015). Our projections use multi-model mean export flux estimates from eight fully coupled earth system models, which contributed to the Coupled Model Intercomparison Project Phase 5, that have been forced by high and low representative concentration pathways (RCP8.5 and 4.5, respectively). These export flux estimates are used in conjunction with published empirical relationships to predict changes in benthic biomass. The polar oceans and some upwelling areas may experience increases in benthic biomass, but most other regions show decreases, with up to 38% reductions in parts of the northeast Atlantic. Our analysis projects a future ocean with smaller sized infaunal benthos, potentially reducing energy transfer rates though benthic multicellular food webs. More than 80% of potential deep-water biodiversity hotspots known around the world, including canyons, seamounts, and cold-water coral reefs, are projected to experience negative changes in biomass. These major reductions in biomass may lead to widespread change in benthic ecosystems and the functions and services they provide.	2014	10.1111/gcb.12480
Hosseyni-Moghaddam, MS; Soltani, J	Bioactivity of endophytic Trichoderma fungal species from the plant family Cupressaceae	ANNALS OF MICROBIOLOGY	Trichoderma fungal species are universal soil residents that are also isolated from decaying wood, vegetables, infected mushroom and immunocompromised patients. Trichoderma species usually biosynthesize a plethora of secondary metabolites. In an attempt to explore endophytic fungi from healthy foliar tissues of the plant family Cuppressaceae, we explored Cupressus arizonica, C. sempervirens var. cereiformis, C. sempervirens var. fastigiata, C. sempervirens var. horizontalis, Juniperus excelsa, Juniperus sp. and Thuja orientalis plants and recovered several endophytic Trichoderma fungal strains from Trichoderma atroviride and Trichoderma koningii species. We found that the host plant species and biogeographical location of sampling affected the biodiversity and bioactivity of endophytic Trichoderma species. Furthermore, the bioactivity of Trichoderma isolates and the methanol extracts of their intra- and extra-cellular metabolites were assessed against a panel of pathogenic fungi and bacteria. Fungal growth inhibition, conidial cytotoxicity, minimum inhibitory concentration and minimum bactericidal concentration were evaluated and analyzed by statistical methods. Our data showed that both intra- and extracellular secondary metabolites from all endophytic isolates had significant cytotoxic and antifungal effects against the model target fungus Pyricularia oryzae and the cypress fungal phytopathogens Diplodia seriata, Phaeobotryon cupressi and Spencermartinsia viticola. Further research indicated their significant antimicrobial bioactivity against the model phytopathogenic bacteria Pseudomonas syringae, Erwinia amylovora and Bacillus sp., as well. Altogether, the above findings show for the first time the presence of T. atroviride and T. koningii as endophytic fungi in Cupressaceae plants and more importantly, the Trichoderma isolates demonstrate significant bioactivity that could be used in future for agrochemical/drug discovery and pathogen biocontrol.	2014	10.1007/s13213-013-0710-1
Wilkinson, DA; Dietrich, M; Lebarbenchon, C; Jaeger, A; Le Rouzic, C; Bastien, M; Lagadec, E; Mccoy, KD; Pascalis, H; Le Corre, M; Dellagi, K; Tortosa, P	Massive Infection of Seabird Ticks with Bacterial Species Related to Coxiella burnetii	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Seabird ticks are known reservoirs of bacterial pathogens of medical importance; however, ticks parasitizing tropical seabirds have received less attention than their counterparts from temperate and subpolar regions. Recently, Rickettsia africae was described to infect seabird ticks of the western Indian Ocean and New Caledonia, constituting the only available data on bacterial pathogens associated with tropical seabird tick species. Here, we combined a pyrosequencing-based approach with a classical molecular analysis targeting bacteria of potential medical importance in order to describe the bacterial community in two tropical seabird ticks, Amblyomma loculosum and Carios (Ornithodoros) capensis. We also investigated the patterns of prevalence and host specificity within the biogeographical context of the western Indian Ocean islands. The bacterial community of the two tick species was characterized by a strong dominance of Coxiella and Rickettsia. Our data support a strict Coxiella-host tick specificity, a pattern resembling the one found for Rickettsia spp. in the same two seabird tick species. Both the high prevalence and stringent host tick specificity suggest that these bacteria may be tick symbionts with probable vertical transmission. Detailed studies of the pathogenicity of these bacteria will now be required to determine whether horizontal transmission can occur and to clarify their status as potential human pathogens. More generally, our results show that the combination of next generation sequencing with targeted detection/genotyping approaches proves to be efficient in poorly investigated fields where research can be considered to be starting from scratch.	2014	10.1128/AEM.00477-14
Pontasch, S; Scott, A; Hill, R; Bridge, T; Fisher, PL; Davy, SK	Symbiodinium diversity in the sea anemone Entacmaea quadricolor on the east Australian coast	CORAL REEFS	The diversity of Symbiodinium spp. in Entacmaea quadricolor was analysed from five locations along similar to 2,100 km on the east coast of Australia using denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) of the internal transcribed spacer 2 region (ITS2) combined with bacterial cloning. DGGE revealed that E. quadricolor predominantly associated with six types of clade C (four of which are novel) and that most anemones harboured multiple types simultaneously. Anemones from southern locations associated with a mixed assemblage of C25 and a variant of C3. This assemblage also dominated the central location, but was absent at the northern location. At central and northern sites, two novel variants of C42(type2) and C1 were found. Anemones hosting C42(type2) also showed a low abundance of variants of C3 and C1, and E1 was found in one sample, as revealed by bacterial cloning. The occurrence of geographically distinct ITS2 types or a consortium of types might reflect a need to optimise physiological performance of the symbiosis at different latitudes.	2014	10.1007/s00338-013-1118-x
Karanovic, T; Gibson, JAE; Hawes, I; Andersen, DT; Stevens, MI	Diacyclops (Copepoda: Cyclopoida) in Continental Antarctica, including three new species	ANTARCTIC SCIENCE	Contrary to earlier beliefs, crustaceans are present in ice-covered lakes of Antarctica. Interpretation of the significance of this has been hampered by the absence of robust identification of taxa present. We examine cyclopoid copepods from three widely separated lakes. All belong to the michaelseni group of the genus Diacyclops, which is widespread across Continental Antarctica, but do not fit into any existing species. Two new species were identified from eastern Antarctica, D. walkeri from Pineapple Lake (Vestfold Hills) and D. kaupi from Transkriptsii Gulf (Bunger Hills). Most significant was a dense population of a new epibenthic species (D. joycei) associated with microbial mats in Lake Joyce, one of the smaller McMurdo Dry Valleys lakes. This represents the first record of adult cyclopoid copepods from the ice-covered lakes of the Transantarctic Mountains. Continental Antarctica is the centre of diversity for this group of crustaceans and we argue that this is better explained by persistence through past glacial advances rather than by recent post-glacial colonization. The existence of a species endemic to Lake Joyce but apparently absent from other Dry Valleys lakes is discussed in relation to our understanding of the history of the McMurdo Dry Valleys lakes and their faunas.	2014	10.1017/S0954102013000643
Barberan, A; Casamayor, EO; Fierer, N	The microbial contribution to macroecology	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	There has been a recent explosion of research within the field of microbial ecology that has been fueled, in part, by methodological improvements that make it feasible to characterize microbial communities to an extent that was inconceivable only a few years ago. Furthermore, there is increasing recognition within the field of ecology that microorganisms play a critical role in the health of organisms and ecosystems. Despite these developments, an important gap still persists between the theoretical framework of macroecology and microbial ecology. We highlight two idiosyncrasies of microorganisms that are fundamental to understanding macroecological patterns and their mechanistic drivers. First, high dispersal rates provide novel opportunities to test the relative importance of niche, stochastic, and historical processes in structuring biological communities. Second, high speciation rates potentially lead to the convergence of ecological and evolutionary time scales. After reviewing these unique aspects, we discuss strategies for improving the conceptual integration of microbes into macroecology. As examples, we discuss the use of phylogenetic ecology as an integrative approach to explore patterns across the tree of life. Then we demonstrate how two general theories of biodiversity (i.e., the recently developed theory of stochastic geometry and the neutral theory) can be adapted to microorganisms. We demonstrate how conceptual models that integrate evolutionary and ecological mechanisms can contribute to the unification of microbial ecology and macroecology.	2014	10.3389/fmicb.2014.00203
Ly, M; Abeles, SR; Boehm, TK; Robles-Sikisaka, R; Naidu, M; Santiago-Rodriguez, T; Pride, DT	Altered Oral Viral Ecology in Association with Periodontal Disease	MBIO	The human oral cavity is home to a large and diverse community of viruses that have yet to be characterized in patients with periodontal disease. We recruited and sampled saliva and oral biofilm from a cohort of humans either periodontally healthy or with mild or significant periodontal disease to discern whether there are differences in viral communities that reflect their oral health status. We found communities of viruses inhabiting saliva and the subgingival and supragingival biofilms of each subject that were composed largely of bacteriophage. While there were homologous viruses common to different subjects and biogeographic sites, for most of the subjects, virome compositions were significantly associated with the oral sites from which they were derived. The largest distinctions between virome compositions were found when comparing the subgingival and supragingival biofilms to those of planktonic saliva. Differences in virome composition were significantly associated with oral health status for both subgingival and supragingival biofilm viruses but not for salivary viruses. Among the differences identified in virome compositions was a significant expansion of myoviruses in subgingival biofilm, suggesting that periodontal disease favors lytic phage. We also characterized the bacterial communities in each subject at each biogeographic site by using the V3 hypervariable segment of the 16S rRNA and did not identify distinctions between oral health and disease similar to those found in viral communities. The significantly altered ecology of viruses of oral biofilm in subjects with periodontal disease compared to that of relatively periodontally healthy ones suggests that viruses may serve as useful indicators of oral health status. IMPORTANCE Little is known about the role or the constituents of viruses as members of the human microbiome. We investigated the composition of human oral viral communities in a group of relatively periodontally healthy subjects or significant periodontitis to determine whether health status may be associated with differences in viruses. We found that most of the viruses present were predators of bacteria. The viruses inhabiting dental plaque were significantly different on the basis of oral health status, while those present in saliva were not. Dental plaque viruses in periodontitis were predicted to be significantly more likely to kill their bacterial hosts than those found in healthy mouths. Because oral diseases such as periodontitis have been shown to have altered bacterial communities, we believe that viruses and their role as drivers of ecosystem diversity are important contributors to the human oral microbiome in health and disease states.	2014	10.1128/mBio.01133-14
Andersson, MGI; Berga, M; Lindstrom, ES; Langenheder, S	The spatial structure of bacterial communities is influenced by historical environmental conditions	ECOLOGY	The spatial structure of ecological communities, including that of bacteria, is often influenced by species sorting by contemporary environmental conditions. Moreover, historical processes, i.e., ecological and evolutionary events that have occurred at some point in the past, such as dispersal limitation, drift, priority effects, or selection by past environmental conditions, can be important, but are generally investigated much less. Here, we conducted a field study using 16 rock pools, where we specifically compared the importance of past vs. contemporary environmental conditions for bacterial community structure by correlating present differences in bacterial community composition among pools to environmental conditions measured on the same day, as well as to those measured 2, 4, 6, and 8 d earlier. The results prove that selection by past environmental conditions exists, since we were able to show that bacterial communities are, to a greater extent, an imprint of past compared to contemporary environmental conditions. We suggest that this is the result of a combination of different mechanisms, including priority effects that cause rapid adaptation to new environmental conditions of taxa that have been initially selected by past environmental conditions, and slower rates of turnover in community composition compared to environmental conditions.	2014	10.1890/13-1300.1
Zhang, Y; Zhao, ZH; Dai, MH; Jiao, NZ; Herndl, GJ	Drivers shaping the diversity and biogeography of total and active bacterial communities in the South China Sea	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	To test the hypothesis that different drivers shape the diversity and biogeography of the total and active bacterial community, we examined the bacterial community composition along two transects, one from the inner Pearl River estuary to the open waters of the South China Sea (SCS) and the other from the Luzon Strait to the SCS basin, using 454 pyrosequencing of the 16S rRNA and 16S rRNA gene (V1-3 regions) and thereby characterizing the active and total bacterial community, respectively. The diversity and biogeographic patterns differed substantially between the active and total bacterial communities. Although the composition of both the total and active bacterial community was strongly correlated with environmental factors and weakly correlated with geographic distance, the active bacterial community displayed higher environmental sensitivity than the total community and particularly a greater distance effect largely caused by the active assemblage from deep waters. The 16S rRNA vs. rDNA relationships indicated that the active bacteria were low in relative abundance in the SCS. This might be due to a high competition between active bacterial taxa as indicated by our community network models. Based on these analyses, we speculate that high competition could cause some dispersal limitation of the active bacterial community resulting in a distinct distance-decay relationship. Altogether, our results indicated that the biogeographic distribution of bacteria in the SCS is the result of both environmental control and distance decay.	2014	10.1111/mec.12739
Zimmerman, N; Izard, J; Klatt, C; Zhou, JZ; Aronson, E	The unseen world: environmental microbial sequencing and identification methods for ecologists	FRONTIERS IN ECOLOGY AND THE ENVIRONMENT	Microorganisms inhabit almost every environment, comprise the majority of diversity on Earth, are important in biogeochemical cycling, and may be vital to ecosystem responses to large-scale climatic change. In recent years, ecologists have begun to use rapidly advancing molecular techniques to address questions about microbial diversity, biogeography, and responses to environmental change. Studies of microbes in the environment generally focus on three broad objectives: determining which organisms are present, what their functional capabilities are, and which are active at any given time. However, comprehending the range of methodologies currently in use can be daunting. To provide an overview of environmental microbial sequence data collection and analysis approaches, we include case studies of microbiomes ranging from the human mouth to geothermal springs. We also suggest contexts in which each technique can be applied and highlight insights that result from their use.	2014	10.1890/130055
Schlatter, DC; Kinkel, LL	Global biogeography of Streptomyces antibiotic inhibition, resistance, and resource use	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Although recent molecular techniques have greatly expanded our knowledge of microbial biogeography, the functional biogeography of soil microorganisms remains poorly understood. In this work, we explore geographic variation in Streptomyces phenotypes that are critical to species interactions. Specifically, we characterize Streptomyces from different locations from multiple continents for antibiotic inhibition, resistance, and resource use phenotypes. Streptomyces from different locations varied significantly in antibiotic inhibition, resistance, and resource use indicating that communities vary in functional potential. Among all isolates, there were substantial differences in antibiotic inhibition, resistance, and resource use within and among and within Streptomyces species. Moreover, Streptomyces with near-identical 16S rRNA gene sequences from different locations sometimes differed significantly in inhibition, resistance, and resource use phenotypes, suggesting that these phenotypes may be locally adapted. Thus, in addition to a likely role of environmental filtering, variation in Streptomyces inhibitory, resistance, and resource use phenotypes among locations is likely to be a consequence of local selection mediated by species interactions.	2014	10.1111/1574-6941.12307
Verstraete, B; Peeters, C; van Wyk, B; Smets, E; Dessein, S; Vandamme, P	Intraspecific variation in Burkholderia caledonica: Europe vs. Africa and soil vs. endophytic isolates	SYSTEMATIC AND APPLIED MICROBIOLOGY	The best-known interaction between bacteria and plants is the Rhizobium-legume symbiosis, but other bacteria-plant interactions exist, such as between Burkholderia and Rubiaceae (coffee family). A number of bacterial endophytes in Rubiaceae are closely related to the soil bacterium Burkholderia caledonica. This intriguing observation is explored by investigating isolates from different geographic regions (Western Europe vs. sub-Saharan Africa) and from different niches (free-living bacteria in soil vs. endophytic bacteria in host plants). The multilocus sequence analysis shows five clades, of which-clade 1 with two basal isolates deviates from the rest and is therefore not considered further. All other isolates belong to the species B. caledonica, but two genetically different groups are identified. Group A holds only European isolates and group B holds isolates from Africa, with the exception of one European isolate. Although the European and African isolates are considered one species, some degree of genetic differentiation is evident. Endophytic isolates of B. caledonica are found in certain members of African Rubiaceae, but only in group B. Within this group, the endophytes cannot be distinguished from the soil isolates, which indicates a possible exchange of bacteria between soil and host plant. (C) 2013 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.	2014	10.1016/j.syapm.2013.12.001
Wells, GF; Wu, CH; Piceno, YM; Eggleston, B; Brodie, EL; DeSantis, TZ; Andersen, GL; Hazen, TC; Francis, CA; Criddle, CS	Microbial biogeography across a full-scale wastewater treatment plant transect: evidence for immigration between coupled processes	APPLIED MICROBIOLOGY AND BIOTECHNOLOGY	Wastewater treatment plants use a variety of bioreactor types and configurations to remove organic matter and nutrients. Little is known regarding the effects of different configurations and within-plant immigration on microbial community dynamics. Previously, we found that the structure of ammonia-oxidizing bacterial (AOB) communities in a full-scale dispersed growth activated sludge bioreactor correlated strongly with levels of NO2 (-) entering the reactor from an upstream trickling filter. Here, to further examine this puzzling association, we profile within-plant microbial biogeography (spatial variation) and test the hypothesis that substantial microbial immigration occurs along a transect (raw influent, trickling filter biofilm, trickling filter effluent, and activated sludge) at the same full-scale wastewater treatment plant. AOB amoA gene abundance increased > 30-fold between influent and trickling filter effluent concomitant with NO2 (-) production, indicating unexpected growth and activity of AOB within the trickling filter. Nitrosomonas europaea was the dominant AOB phylotype in trickling filter biofilm and effluent, while a distinct Nitrosomonas-like lineage dominated in activated sludge. Prior time series indicated that this Nitrosomonas-like lineage was dominant when NO2 (-) levels in the trickling filter effluent (i.e., activated sludge influent) were low, while N. europaea became dominant in the activated sludge when NO2 (-) levels were high. This is consistent with the hypothesis that NO2 (-) production may cooccur with biofilm sloughing, releasing N. europaea from the trickling filter into the activated sludge bioreactor. Phylogenetic microarray (PhyloChip) analyses revealed significant spatial variation in taxonomic diversity, including a large excess of methanogens in the trickling filter relative to activated sludge and attenuation of Enterobacteriaceae across the transect, and demonstrated transport of a highly diverse microbial community via the trickling filter effluent to the activated sludge bioreactor. Our results provide compelling evidence that substantial immigration between coupled process units occurs and may exert significant influence over microbial community dynamics within staged bioreactors.	2014	10.1007/s00253-014-5564-3
Youngblut, ND; DellAringa, M; Whitaker, RJ	Differentiation between sediment and hypolimnion methanogen communities in humic lakes	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	The traditional view of carbon cycling within the pelagic zone of freshwater lakes has consisted of methane production within the anoxic sediment, followed by diffusive flux and ebullition through the water column. Methanogenic archaea have been shown to be present within the water columns of freshwater lakes; however, little is known about whether these methanogenic communities are distinct from those in the sediment or how these communities change over space and time. We used the methanogen-specific phylogenetic marker mcrA to perform a 3-year study focusing on the community structure of methanogens within the sediment and anoxic hypolimnion water layer of five humic lakes in WI, USA. The hypolimnion and sediment communities were distinct in composition, richness and phylogenetic diversity. Hypolimnion communities displayed a temporally stable biogeographical pattern among lakes, which was driven by both lake-specific environmental variables and barriers to dispersal. We conclude that the hypolimnion comprised communities of methanogens that are distinct from those in the sediment, differentiated among lakes, and likely have unique ecological roles and evolutionary trajectories in these anaerobic environments.	2014	10.1111/1462-2920.12330
Tazi, L; Breakwell, DP; Harker, AR; Crandall, KA	Life in extreme environments: microbial diversity in Great Salt Lake, Utah	EXTREMOPHILES	Great Salt Lake (GSL) represents one of the worlds most hypersaline environments. In this study, the archaeal and bacterial communities at the North and South arms of the lake were surveyed by cloning and sequencing the 16S rRNA gene. The sampling locations were chosen for high salt concentration and the presence of unique environmental gradients, such as petroleum seeps and high sulfur content. Molecular techniques have not been systematically applied to this extreme environment, and thus the composition and the genetic diversity of microbial communities at GSL remain mostly unknown. This study led to the identification of 58 archaeal and 42 bacterial operational taxonomic units. Our phylogenetic and statistical analyses displayed a high biodiversity of the microbial communities in this environment. In this survey, we also showed that the majority of the 16S rRNA gene sequences within the clone library were distantly related to previously described environmental halophilic archaeal and bacterial taxa and represent novel phylotypes.	2014	10.1007/s00792-014-0637-x
Kim, M; Kim, WS; Tripathi, BM; Adams, J	Distinct Bacterial Communities Dominate Tropical and Temperate Zone Leaf Litter	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Little is known of the bacterial community of tropical rainforest leaf litter and how it might differ from temperate forest leaf litter and from the soils underneath. We sampled leaf litter in a similarly advanced stage of decay, and for comparison, we also sampled the surface layer of soil, at three tropical forest sites in Malaysia and four temperate forest sites in South Korea. Illumina sequencing targeting partial bacterial 16S ribosomal ribonucleic acid (rRNA) gene revealed that the bacterial community composition of both temperate and tropical litter is quite distinct from the soils underneath. Litter in both temperate and tropical forest was dominated by Proteobacteria and Actinobacteria, while soil is dominated by Acidobacteria and, to a lesser extent, Proteobacteria. However, bacterial communities of temperate and tropical litter clustered separately from one another on an ordination. The soil bacterial community structures were also distinctive to each climatic zone, suggesting that there must be a climate-specific biogeographical pattern in bacterial community composition. The differences were also found in the level of diversity. The temperate litter has a higher operational taxonomic unit (OTU) diversity than the tropical litter, paralleling the trend in soil diversity. Overall, it is striking that the difference in community composition between the leaf litter and the soil a few centimeters underneath is about the same as that between leaf litter in tropical and temperate climates, thousands of kilometers apart. However, one substantial difference was that the leaf litter of two tropical forest sites, Meranti and Forest Research Institute Malaysia (FRIM), was overwhelmingly dominated by the single genus Burkholderia, at 37 and 23 % of reads, respectively. The 454 sequencing result showed that most Burkholderia species in tropical leaf litter belong to nonpathogenic plant beneficial lineages. The differences from the temperate zone in the bacterial community of tropical forest litter may be partly a product of its differing chemistry, although the unvarying climate might also play a role, as might interactions with other organisms such as fungi. The single genus Burkholderia may be seen as potentially playing a major role in decomposition and nutrient cycling in tropical forests, but apparently not in temperate forests.	2014	10.1007/s00248-014-0380-y
Pinto, AJ; Schroeder, J; Lunn, M; Sloan, W; Raskin, L	Spatial-Temporal Survey and Occupancy-Abundance Modeling To Predict Bacterial Community Dynamics in the Drinking Water Microbiome	MBIO	Bacterial communities migrate continuously from the drinking water treatment plant through the drinking water distribution system and into our built environment. Understanding bacterial dynamics in the distribution system is critical to ensuring that safe drinking water is being supplied to customers. We present a 15-month survey of bacterial community dynamics in the drinking water system of Ann Arbor, MI. By sampling the water leaving the treatment plant and at nine points in the distribution system, we show that the bacterial community spatial dynamics of distance decay and dispersivity conform to the layout of the drinking water distribution system. However, the patterns in spatial dynamics were weaker than those for the temporal trends, which exhibited seasonal cycling correlating with temperature and source water use patterns and also demonstrated reproducibility on an annual time scale. The temporal trends were driven by two seasonal bacterial clusters consisting of multiple taxa with different networks of association within the larger drinking water bacterial community. Finally, we show that the Ann Arbor data set robustly conforms to previously described interspecific occupancy abundance models that link the relative abundance of a taxon to the frequency of its detection. Relying on these insights, we propose a predictive framework for microbial management in drinking water systems. Further, we recommend that long-term microbial observatories that collect high-resolution, spatially distributed, multiyear time series of community composition and environmental variables be established to enable the development and testing of the predictive framework. IMPORTANCE Safe and regulation-compliant drinking water may contain up to millions of microorganisms per liter, representing phylogenetically diverse groups of bacteria, archaea, and eukarya that affect public health, water infrastructure, and the aesthetic quality of water. The ability to predict the dynamics of the drinking water microbiome will ensure that microbial contamination risks can be better managed. Through a spatial-temporal survey of drinking water bacterial communities, we present novel insights into their spatial and temporal community dynamics and recommend steps to link these insights in a predictive framework for microbial management of drinking water systems. Such a predictive framework will not only help to eliminate microbial risks but also help to modify existing water quality monitoring efforts and make them more resource efficient. Further, a predictive framework for microbial management will be critical if we are to fully anticipate the risks and benefits of the beneficial manipulation of the drinking water microbiome.	2014	10.1128/mBio.01135-14
Talbot, JM; Bruns, TD; Taylor, JW; Smith, DP; Branco, S; Glassman, SI; Erlandson, S; Vilgalys, R; Liao, HL; Smith, ME; Peay, KG	Endemism and functional convergence across the North American soil mycobiome	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	Identifying the ecological processes that structure communities and the consequences for ecosystem function is a central goal of ecology. The recognition that fungi, bacteria, and viruses control key ecosystem functions has made microbial communities a major focus of this field. Because many ecological processes are apparent only at particular spatial or temporal scales, a complete understanding of the linkages between microbial community, environment, and function requires analysis across a wide range of scales. Here, we map the biological and functional geography of soil fungi from local to continental scales and show that the principal ecological processes controlling community structure and function operate at different scales. Similar to plants or animals, most soil fungi are endemic to particular bioregions, suggesting that factors operating at large spatial scales, like dispersal limitation or climate, are the first-order determinants of fungal community structure in nature. By contrast, soil extracellular enzyme activity is highly convergent across bioregions and widely differing fungal communities. Instead, soil enzyme activity is correlated with local soil environment and distribution of fungal traits within the community. The lack of structure-function relationships for soil fungal communities at continental scales indicates a high degree of functional redundancy among fungal communities in global biogeochemical cycles.	2014	10.1073/pnas.1402584111
Swan, BK; Chaffin, MD; Martinez-Garcia, M; Morrison, HG; Field, EK; Poulton, NJ; Masland, EDP; Harris, CC; Sczyrba, A; Chain, PSG; Koren, S; Woyke, T; Stepanauskas, R	Genomic and Metabolic Diversity of Marine Group I Thaumarchaeota in the Mesopelagic of Two Subtropical Gyres	PLOS ONE	Marine Group I (MGI) Thaumarchaeota are one of the most abundant and cosmopolitan chemoautotrophs within the global dark ocean. To date, no representatives of this archaeal group retrieved from the dark ocean have been successfully cultured. We used single cell genomics to investigate the genomic and metabolic diversity of thaumarchaea within the mesopelagic of the subtropical North Pacific and South Atlantic Ocean. Phylogenetic and metagenomic recruitment analysis revealed that MGI single amplified genomes (SAGs) are genetically and biogeographically distinct from existing thaumarchaea cultures obtained from surface waters. Confirming prior studies, we found genes encoding proteins for aerobic ammonia oxidation and the hydrolysis of urea, which may be used for energy production, as well as genes involved in 3-hydroxypropionate/4-hydroxybutyrate and oxidative tricarboxylic acid pathways. A large proportion of protein sequences identified in MGI SAGs were absent in the marine cultures Cenarchaeum symbiosum and Nitrosopumilus maritimus, thus expanding the predicted protein space for this archaeal group. Identifiable genes located on genomic islands with low metagenome recruitment capacity were enriched in cellular defense functions, likely in response to viral infections or grazing. We show that MGI Thaumarchaeota in the dark ocean may have more flexibility in potential energy sources and adaptations to biotic interactions than the existing, surface-ocean cultures.	2014	10.1371/journal.pone.0095380
Zhang, YG; Cong, J; Lu, H; Yang, CY; Yang, YF; Zhou, JH; Li, DQ	An Integrated Study to Analyze Soil Microbial Community Structure and Metabolic Potential in Two Forest Types	PLOS ONE	Soil microbial metabolic potential and ecosystem function have received little attention owing to difficulties in methodology. In this study, we selected natural mature forest and natural secondary forest and analyzed the soil microbial community and metabolic potential combing the high-throughput sequencing and GeoChip technologies. Phylogenetic analysis based on 16S rRNA sequencing showed that one known archaeal phylum and 15 known bacterial phyla as well as unclassified phylotypes were presented in these forest soils, and Acidobacteria, Protecobacteria, and Actinobacteria were three of most abundant phyla. The detected microbial functional gene groups were related to different biogeochemical processes, including carbon degradation, carbon fixation, methane metabolism, nitrogen cycling, phosphorus utilization, sulfur cycling, etc. The Shannon index for detected functional gene probes was significantly higher (P<0.05) at natural secondary forest site. The regression analysis showed that a strong positive (P<0.05) correlation was existed between the soil microbial functional gene diversity and phylogenetic diversity. Mantel test showed that soil oxidizable organic carbon, soil total nitrogen and cellulose, glucanase, and amylase activities were significantly linked (P<0.05) to the relative abundance of corresponded functional gene groups. Variance partitioning analysis showed that a total of 81.58% of the variation in community structure was explained by soil chemical factors, soil temperature, and plant diversity. Therefore, the positive link of soil microbial structure and composition to functional activity related to ecosystem functioning was existed, and the natural secondary forest soil may occur the high microbial metabolic potential. Although the results cant directly reflect the actual microbial populations and functional activities, this study provides insight into the potential activity of the microbial community and associated feedback responses of the terrestrial ecosystem to environmental changes.	2014	10.1371/journal.pone.0093773
Logares, R; Audic, S; Bass, D; Bittner, L; Boutte, C; Christen, R; Claverie, JM; Decelle, J; Dolan, JR; Dunthorn, M; Edvardsen, B; Gobet, A; Kooistra, WHCF; Mahe, F; Not, F; Ogata, H; Pawlowski, J; Pernice, MC; Romac, S; Shalchian-Tabrizi, K; Simon, N; Stoeck, T; Santini, S; Siano, R; Wincker, P; Zingone, A; Richards, TA; de Vargas, C; Massana, R	Patterns of Rare and Abundant Marine Microbial Eukaryotes	CURRENT BIOLOGY	Background: Biological communities are normally composed of a few abundant and many rare species. This pattern is particularly prominent in microbial communities, in which most constituent taxa are usually extremely rare. Although abundant and rare subcommunities may present intrinsic characteristics that could be crucial for understanding community dynamics and ecosystem functioning, microbiologists normally do not differentiate between them. Here, we investigate abundant and rare subcommunities of marine microbial eukaryotes, a crucial group of organisms that remains among the least-explored biodiversity components of the biosphere. We surveyed surface waters of six separate coastal locations in Europe, independently considering the picoplankton, nanoplankton, and microplankton/mesoplankton organismal size fractions. Results: Deep Illumina sequencing of the 18S rRNA indicated that the abundant regional community was mostly structured by organismal size fraction, whereas the rare regional community was mainly structured by geographic origin. However, some abundant and rare taxa presented similar biogeography, pointing to spatiotemporal structure in the rare microeukaryote biosphere. Abundant and rare subcommunities presented regular proportions across samples, indicating similar species-abundance distributions despite taxonomic compositional variation. Several taxa were abundant in one location and rare in other locations, suggesting large oscillations in abundance. The substantial amount of metabolically active lineages found in the rare biosphere suggests that this sub-community constitutes a diversity reservoir that can respond rapidly to environmental change. Conclusions: We propose that marine planktonic microeukaryote assemblages incorporate dynamic and metabolically active abundant and rare subcommunities, with contrasting structuring patterns but fairly regular proportions, across space and time.	2014	10.1016/j.cub.2014.02.050
Lundsten, L; Reiswig, HM; Austin, WC	Four new species of Cladorhizidae (Porifera, Demospongiae, Poecilosclerida) from the Northeast Pacific	ZOOTAXA	Interest in cladorhizid sponges has grown rapidly in the past 19 years since a unique feeding strategy, carnivory, was described by Vacelet and Boury-Esnault in 1995. Since that time, 31% of the 133 extant cladorhizids have been described. Previously, seven species of cladorhizid sponges were known from the Northeast Pacific. Here we describe four additional species, including two species of Asbestopluma and two species of Cladorhiza. We report on species ranges, habitat, and ecology, including one from a chemosynthetic environment that appears to be using methane-oxidizing bacteria as a nutrient source. In fact, three of the four species described here were found in chemosynthetic habitats. The presence of small crustacean prey was also documented for three of these species.	2014	
Baskaran, SA; Price, T; Wu, XZ; Walzem, R	Effects of dairy ingredients on gut microbiome biogeography in mice	FASEB JOURNAL		2014	
de Castro, LAM; Kuppers, GC; Schweikert, M; Harada, ML; Paiva, TD	Ciliates from eutrophized water in the northern Brazil and morphology of Cristigera hammeri Wilbert, 1986 (Ciliophora, Scuticociliatia)	EUROPEAN JOURNAL OF PROTISTOLOGY	Ciliates occur in all major aquatic and soil environments worldwide and are important links in the microbial food webs, which, along with other free-living protists, are generally overlooked in biodiversity conservation programs. In Brazil, the northern region comprises the Brazilian Amazonia, an area widely known for its huge biodiversity. However, the diversity of ciliates in that region is still almost unknown. As result of the present study, a total of 21 species of ciliates, distributed among 15 genera, were inventoried from samples of eutrophized water collected in the city of Belem, capital of the state of Para, one of the states which comprise the Brazilian Amazonia. In addition, a local population of the rare scuticociliate Cristigera hammeri is described from optical and electron microscopy observations, and its synonymy with C. pleuronemoides is rejected based on new evidence. (C) 2014 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.	2014	10.1016/j.ejop.2014.01.005
Hodges, K; Donnellan, S; Georges, A	Phylogeography of the Australian freshwater turtle Chelodina expansa reveals complex relationships among inland and coastal bioregions	BIOLOGICAL JOURNAL OF THE LINNEAN SOCIETY	We examined range-wide mitochondrial phylogeographical structure in the riverine freshwater turtle Chelodina expansa to determine whether this species exhibits deep genetic divergence between coastal and inland hydrological provinces, as seen in co-distributed freshwater taxa. We sequenced two mitochondrial loci, genealogical relationships were assessed using a network approach, and relationships among biogeographical regions were tested using analyses of molecular variance. Population history was evaluated using neutrality tests, indices of demographic expansion, and mismatch analyses. Twenty-one haplotypes were recovered across two mitochondrial haplogroups separated by approximately 4% nucleotide divergence. The haplogroups have discrete geographical boundaries but only partially support a hypothesis of deep divergence between coastal and inland bioregions. The first haplogroup comprises populations from the inland Murray-Darling Basin and from coastal catchments south of the Mary River in south-east Queensland. The second haplogroup comprises populations from coastal catchments north of the Mary River. Cryptic phylogeographical barriers separating adjacent coastal populations are congruent with those demonstrated for other freshwater taxa and may result from the combined influences of the Conondale Range and alluvial deposits at the mouth of the Mary River. The findings of the present study demonstrate that freshwater taxa commonly display genetic differentiation within a biogeographical region where no boundaries have been recognized, highlighting the need to uncover cryptic microbiogeographical regions to aid conservation of freshwater biota. (c) 2014 The Linnean Society of London, Biological Journal of the Linnean Society, 2014, 111, 789-805.	2014	10.1111/bij.12221
Sun, B; Wang, F; Jiang, YJ; Li, Y; Dong, ZX; Li, ZP; Zhang, XX	A long- term field experiment of soil transplantation demonstrating the role of contemporary geographic separation in shaping soil microbial community structure	ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION	The spatial patterns of microbial communities are largely determined by the combined effects of historical contingencies and contemporary environmental disturbances, but their relative importance remains poorly understood. Empirical biogeographic data currently available are mostly based on the traditional method of observational survey, which typically involves comparing indigenous microbial communities across spatial scales. Here, we report a long-term soil transplantation experiment, whereby the same two soils (red Acrisol and purple Cambisol from Yingtan) were placed into two geographic locations of 1000km apart (i.e., Yingtan in the mid-subtropical region and Fengqiu in warm-temperate region; both located in China). Twenty years after the transplantation, the resulting soil microbial communities were subject to high-throughput 454 pyrosequencing analysis of 16S and 18S rRNA genes. Additionally, bacteria and archaea involved in nitrogen cycling were estimated using clone library analysis of four genes: archaeal amoA, bacterial amoA, nirK, and nifH. Data of subsequent phylogenetic analysis show that bacteria, fungi, and other microbial eukaryotes, as well as the nitrogen cycling genes, are grouped primarily by the factor of geographic location rather than soil type. Moreover, a shift of microbial communities toward those in local soil (i.e., Chao soil in Fengqiu) has been observed. The results thus suggest that the historical effects persistent in the soil microbial communities can be largely erased by contemporary disturbance within a short period of 20years, implicating weak effects of historical contingencies on the structure and composition of microbial communities in the soil.	2014	10.1002/ece3.1006
Vaz, ABM; Fontenla, S; Rocha, FS; Brandao, LR; Vieira, MLA; De Garcia, V; Goes-Neto, A; Rosa, CA	Fungal endophyte beta-diversity associated with Myrtaceae species in an Andean Patagonian forest (Argentina) and an Atlantic forest (Brazil)	FUNGAL ECOLOGY	The biogeography of microorganisms is poorly understood and how microbial diversity is structured is still an open debate. We investigated the processes underlying the fungal endophyte assemblages of phylogenetically related Myrtae host tree species at different spatial scales: regional, 101-5 000 km; local, 0-100 km; and microscale, 0-1 km. A total of 939 isolates was obtained and assigned to 51 distinct MOTUs based on the sequencing of the nrITS region. At regional scales, geographic distance was responsible for explaining the fungal community similarity, while, at a local scale, it was the environmental distance. Moreover, fungal endophytes exhibit preference in the colonization of Luma apiculata but not for Myrceugenia ovata var. nanophylla. Our results suggest that fungal endophytes are not randomly distributed and are influenced by both geographic and environment distances depending on the spatial scale analysed. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd and The British Mycological Society. All rights reserved.	2014	10.1016/j.funeco.2013.12.008
Hamada, Y; Gilbert, JA; Larsen, PE; Norgaard, MJ	Toward Linking Aboveground Vegetation Properties and Soil Microbial Communities Using Remote Sensing	PHOTOGRAMMETRIC ENGINEERING AND REMOTE SENSING	Despite their vital role in terrestrial ecosystem function, the distributions and dynamics of soil microbial communities (SMCs) are poorly understood. Vegetation and soil properties are the primary factors that influence SMCs. This paper discusses the potential effectiveness of remote sensing science and technologies for mapping SMC biogeography by characterizing surface biophysical properties (e.g., plant traits and community composition) strongly correlated with SMCs. Using remotely sensed biophysical properties to predict SMC distributions is extremely challenging because of the intricate interactions between biotic and abiotic factors and between above- and below-ground ecosystems. However, the integration of biophysical and soil remote sensing with geospatial information about the environment holds great promise for mapping SMC biogeography Additional research needs involve microbial taxonomic definition, soil environmental complexity, and scaling strategies. The collaborative effort of experts from diverse disciplines is essential to linking terrestrial surface biosphere observations with subsurface microbial community distributions using remote sensing.	2014	
Daines, SJ; Clark, JR; Lenton, TM	Multiple environmental controls on phytoplankton growth strategies determine adaptive responses of the N : P ratio	ECOLOGY LETTERS	The controls on the Redfield N:P stoichiometry of marine phytoplankton and hence the N:P ratio of the deep ocean remain incompletely understood. Here, we use a model for phytoplankton ecophysiology and growth, based on functional traits and resource-allocation trade-offs, to show how environmental filtering, biotic interactions, and element cycling in a global ecosystem model determine phytoplankton biogeography, growth strategies and macromolecular composition. Emergent growth strategies capture major observed patterns in marine biomes. Using a new synthesis of experimental RNA and protein measurements to constrain per-ribosome translation rates, we determine a spatially variable lower limit on adaptive rRNA:protein allocation and hence on the relationship between the largest cellular P and N pools. Comparison with the lowest observed phytoplankton N:P ratios and N:P export fluxes in the Southern Ocean suggests that additional contributions from phospholipid and phosphorus storage compounds play a fundamental role in determining the marine biogeochemical cycling of these elements.	2014	10.1111/ele.12239
Aguilar, M; Fiore-Donno, AM; Lado, C; Cavalier-Smith, T	Using environmental niche models to test the everything is everywhere hypothesis for Badhamia	ISME JOURNAL	It is often discussed whether the biogeography of free-living protists is better explained by the everything is everywhere(EiE) hypothesis, which postulates that only ecology drives their distribution, or by the alternative hypothesis of moderate endemicity in which geographic barriers can limit their dispersal. To formally test this, it would be necessary not only to find organisms restricted to a geographical area but also to check for their presence in any other place with a similar ecology. We propose the use of environmental niche models to generate and test null EiE distributions. Here we have analysed the distribution of 18S rDNA variants (ribotypes) of the myxomycete Badhamia melanospora (belonging to the protozoan phylum Amoebozoa) using 125 specimens from 91 localities. Two geographically structured groups of ribotypes congruent with slight morphological differences in the spores can be distinguished. One group comprises all populations from Argentina and Chile, and the other is formed by populations from North America together with human-introduced populations from other parts of the world. Environmental climatic niche models constructed separately for the two groups have significant differences, but show several overlapping areas. However, only specimens from one group were found in an intensively surveyed area in South America where both niche models overlap. It can be concluded that everything is not everywhere for B. melanospora. This taxon constitutes a complex formed by at least two cryptic species that probably diverged allopatrically in North and South America.	2014	10.1038/ismej.2013.183
Zhang, ZG; Geng, JW; Tang, XD; Fan, H; Xu, JC; Wen, XJ; Ma, ZS; Shi, P	Spatial heterogeneity and co-occurrence patterns of human mucosal-associated intestinal microbiota	ISME JOURNAL	Human gut microbiota shows high inter-subject variations, but the actual spatial distribution and co-occurrence patterns of gut mucosa microbiota that occur within a healthy human instestinal tract remain poorly understood. In this study, we illustrated a model of this mucosa bacterial communities biogeography, based on the largest data set so far, obtained via 454-pyrosequencing of bacterial 16S rDNAs associated with 77 matched biopsy tissue samples taken from terminal ileum, ileocecal valve, ascending colon, transverse colon, descending colon, sigmoid colon and rectum of 11 healthy adult subjects. Borrowing from macro-ecology, we used both Taylors power law analysis and phylogeny-based beta-diversity metrics to uncover a highly heterogeneous distribution pattern of mucosa microbial inhabitants along the length of the intestinal tract. We then developed a spatial dispersion model with an R-squared value greater than 0.950 to map out the gut mucosa-associated floras non-linear spatial distribution pattern for 51.60% of the 188 most abundant gut bacterial species. Furthermore, spatial co-occurring network analysis of mucosa microbial inhabitants together with occupancy (that is habitat generalists, specialists and opportunist) analyses implies that ecological relationships (both oppositional and symbiotic) between mucosa microbial inhabitants may be important contributors to the observed spatial heterogeneity of mucosa microbiota along the human intestine and may even potentially be associated with mutual cooperation within and functional stability of the gut ecosystem.	2014	10.1038/ismej.2013.185
Hanson, BT; Hewson, I; Madsen, EL	Metaproteomic Survey of Six Aquatic Habitats: Discovering the Identities of Microbial Populations Active in Biogeochemical Cycling	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Our goal is to strengthen the foundations of metaproteomics as a microbial community analysis tool that links the functional identity of actively expressed gene products with host phylogeny. We used shotgun metaproteomics to survey waters in six disparate aquatic habitats (Cayuga Lake, NY; Oneida Lake, NY; Gulf of Maine; Chesapeake Bay, MD; Gulf of Mexico; and the South Pacific). Peptide pools prepared from filter-gathered microbial biomass, analyzed by nano-liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (MS/MS) generating 9,693 +/- 1,073 mass spectra identified 326 +/- 107 bacterial proteins per sample. Distribution of proteobacterial (Alpha and Beta) and cyanobacterial (Prochlorococcus and Synechococcus spp.) protein hosts across all six samples was consistent with the previously published biogeography for these microorganisms. Marine samples were enriched in transport proteins (TRAP-type for dicarboxylates and ATP binding cassette (ABC)-type for amino acids and carbohydrates) compared with the freshwater samples. We were able to match in situ expression of many key proteins catalyzing C-, N-, and S-cycle processes with their bacterial hosts across all six habitats. Pelagibacter was identified as the host of ABC-type sugar-, organic polyanion-, and glycine betaine-transport proteins; this extends previously published studies of Pelagibacters in situ biogeochemical role in marine C- and N-metabolism. Proteins matched to Ruegeria confirmed these organisms role in marine waters oxidizing both carbon monoxide and sulfide. By documenting both processes expressed in situ and the identity of host cells, metaproteomics tested several existing hypotheses about ecophysiological processes and provided fodder for new ones.	2014	10.1007/s00248-013-0346-5
Regan, KM; Nunan, N; Boeddinghaus, RS; Baumgartner, V; Berner, D; Boch, S; Oelmann, Y; Overmann, J; Prati, D; Schloter, M; Schmitt, B; Sorkau, E; Steffens, M; Kandeler, E; Marhan, S	Seasonal controls on grassland microbial biogeography: Are they governed by plants, abiotic properties or both?	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	Temporal dynamics create unique and often ephemeral conditions that can influence soil microbial biogeography at different spatial scales. This study investigated the relation between decimeter to meter spatial variability of soil microbial community structure, plant diversity, and soil properties at six dates from April through November. We also explored the robustness of these interactions over time. An historically unfertilized, unplowed grassland in southwest Germany was selected to characterize how seasonal variability in the composition of plant communities and substrate quality changed the biogeography of soil microorganisms at the plot scale (10 m x 10 m). Microbial community spatial structure was positively correlated with the local environment, i.e. physical and chemical soil properties, in spring and autumn, while the density and diversity of plants had an additional effect in the summer period. Spatial relationships among plant and microbial communities were detected only in the early summer and autumn periods when aboveground biomass increase was most rapid and its influence on soil microbial communities was greatest due to increased demand by plants for nutrients. Individual properties exhibited varying degrees of spatial structure over the season. Differential responses of Gram positive and Gram negative bacterial communities to seasonal shifts in soil nutrients were detected. We concluded that spatial distribution patterns of soil microorganisms change over a season and that chemical soil properties are more important controlling factors than plant density and diversity. Finer spatial resolution, such as the mm to cm scale, as well as taxonomic resolution of microbial groups, could help determine the importance of plant species density, composition, and growth stage in shaping microbial community composition and spatial patterns. (C) 2014 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2014	10.1016/j.soilbio.2013.12.024
Lee, YM; Hahm, D; Jung, YJ; Park, SH; Chun, J; Hong, SG	Bacterial community of sediments from the Australian-Antarctic ridge	POLAR BIOLOGY	Benthic bacterial communities in the ocean comprise the vast majority of prokaryotes on Earth and play crucial roles in the biogeochemical cycles and remineralization of organic matter. Despite the importance of the benthic bacterial communities in the ecosystem, no previous investigations of the bacterial community of sediments from the Australian-Antarctic ridge (AAR) have been conducted to date. In this study, the composition of the bacterial community in the surface sediments from AAR was revealed by the 454 pyrosequencing method. Bacterial communities inhabiting the sediments of AAR were highly diverse, covering 39 distinct major lineages of bacteria. Among them, Gammaproteobacteria, Planctomycetes, Actinobacteria, Deltaproteobacteria, Acidobacteria, Alphaproteobacteria, Chloroflexi, Bacteroidetes, Chlorobi, and Gemmatimonadetes were dominant, accounting for 85-88 % of the bacterial community. The 16S rDNA sequences of major OTUs with 1 % or higher relative abundance showed high similarity (96.6-100 %) with uncultured environmental sequences that were primarily recovered from the sediments of various areas of the Arctic, Southern, Atlantic, Indian, and Pacific Oceans. As the first report of the bacterial community of marine sediments in the AAR region, the results presented herein suggest that members of the predominant phyla are well adapted to the environment of marine sediment and that the low variability in the bacterial communities of deep-sea sediments might reflect the similar environmental conditions among various regions of the deep sea.	2014	10.1007/s00300-014-1467-0
Landa, BB; Montes-Borrego, M; Aranda, S; Soriano, MA; Gomez, JA; Navas-Cortes, JA	Soil factors involved in the diversity and structure of soil bacterial communities in commercial organic olive orchards in Southern Spain	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY REPORTS	Nowadays, there is a tendency in olive production systems to reduce tillage or keep a vegetative cover to reduce soil erosion and degradation. However, there is scarce information on the effects of different soil management systems (SMS) in soil bacterial community composition of olive groves. In this study, we have evaluated the effects of soil type and different SMS implemented to control weeds in the structure and diversity of bacterial communities of 58 soils in the two geographic areas that best represent the organic olive production systems in Spain. Bacterial community composition assessed by frequency and intensity of occurrence of terminal restriction profiles (TRFs) derived from terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) analysis of amplified 16S ribosomal deoxyribonucleic acid were strongly correlated with soil type/field site (Eutric/Calcaric) that differed mainly in soil particle size distribution and soil pH, followed by a strong effect of SMS, in that order. Canonical discriminant (CD) analysis of TRFs properly classified all of the olive orchard soils as belonging to their respective soil type or SMS. Furthermore, only a small set of TRFs were enough to clearly and significantly differentiate soil samples according to soil type or SMS. Those specific TRFs could be used as bioindicators to assess the effect of changes in SMS aimed to enhance soil quality in olive production systems.	2014	10.1111/1758-2229.12148
Charlop-Powers, Z; Owen, JG; Reddy, BVB; Ternei, MA; Brady, SF	Chemical-biogeographic survey of secondary metabolism in soil	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	In this study, we compare biosynthetic gene richness and diversity of 96 soil microbiomes from diverse environments found throughout the southwestern and northeastern regions of the United States. The 454-pyroseqencing of nonribosomal peptide adenylation (AD) and polyketide ketosynthase (KS) domain fragments amplified from these microbiomes provide a means to evaluate the variation of secondary metabolite biosynthetic diversity in different soil environments. Through soil composition and AD-and KS-amplicon richness analysis, we identify soil types with elevated biosynthetic potential. In general, arid soils show the richest observed biosynthetic diversity, whereas brackish sediments and pine forest soils show the least. By mapping individual environmental amplicon sequences to sequences derived from functionally characterized biosynthetic gene clusters, we identified conserved soil type-specific secondary metabolome enrichment patterns despite significant sample-to-sample sequence variation. These data are used to create chemical biogeographic distribution maps for biomedically valuable families of natural products in the environment that should prove useful for directing the discovery of bioactive natural products in the future.	2014	10.1073/pnas.1318021111
Adams, RI; Miletto, M; Lindow, SE; Taylor, JW; Bruns, TD	Airborne Bacterial Communities in Residences: Similarities and Differences with Fungi	PLOS ONE	Genetic analysis of indoor air has uncovered a rich microbial presence, but rarely have both the bacterial and fungal components been examined in the same samples. Here we present a study that examined the bacterial component of passively settled microbes from both indoor and outdoor air over a discrete time period and for which the fungal component has already been reported. Dust was allowed to passively settle in five common locations around a home - living room, bedroom, bathroom, kitchen, and balcony - at different dwellings within a university-housing complex for a one-month period at two time points, once in summer and again in winter. We amplified the bacterial 16S rRNA gene in these samples and analyzed them with high-throughput sequencing. Like fungal OTU-richness, bacterial OTU-richness was higher outdoors then indoors and was invariant across different indoor room types. While fungal composition was structured largely by season and residential unit, bacterial composition varied by residential unit and room type. Bacteria from putative outdoor sources, such as Sphingomonas and Deinococcus, comprised a large percentage of the balcony samples, while human-associated taxa comprised a large percentage of the indoor samples. Abundant outdoor bacterial taxa were also observed indoors, but the reverse was not true; this is unlike fungi, in which the taxa abundant indoors were also well-represented outdoors. Moreover, there was a partial association of bacterial composition and geographic distance, such that samples separated by even a few hundred meters tended have greater compositional differences than samples closer together in space, a pattern also observed for fungi. These data show that while the outdoor source for indoor bacteria and fungi varies in both space and time, humans provide a strong and homogenizing effect on indoor bacterial bioaerosols, a pattern not observed in fungi.	2014	10.1371/journal.pone.0091283
Adams, HE; Crump, BC; Kling, GW	Metacommunity dynamics of bacteria in an arctic lake: the impact of species sorting and mass effects on bacterial production and biogeography	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	To understand mechanisms linking ecosystem processes and microbial diversity in freshwater ecosystems, bacterial productivity and the metacommunity dynamics of species sorting and mass effects were investigated in an 18 ha headwater lake in northern Alaska. On most sampling dates, the phylogenetic composition of bacterial communities in inflowing streams (inlets) was strikingly different than that in the lake and the outflowing stream (outlet) (16S DGGE fingerprinting), demonstrating the shift in composition that occurs as these communities transit the lake. Outlet and downstream communities were also more productive than inlet and upstream communities (C-14-leucine incorporation). Inlet bacteria transplanted to the outlet stream in dialysis bags were equally or less productive than control bacteria, suggesting that the inlet bacteria are capable of growing under lake conditions, but do not remain abundant because of species sorting in the lake. Outlet bacteria (representative of epilimnetic bacteria) transplanted to the inlet stream were less productive than control bacteria, suggesting that lake bacteria are not as well adapted to growing under inlet conditions. Based on water density, inlet stream water and bacteria generally entered the lake at the base of the epilimnion. However, during low to medium flow in the inlet stream the residence time of the epilimnion was too long relative to bacterial doubling times for these allochthonous bacteria to have a mass effect on the composition of outlet bacteria. The highest community similarity between inlet and outlet bacteria was detected after a large rain event in 2003, with over 61% similarity (average non-storm similarities were 39 +/- 8%). While mass effects may be important during large storm events, species sorting appears to be the predominant mechanism structuring bacterial communities within the lake, leading to the assembly of a lake community that has lost some ability to function in stream habitats.	2014	10.3389/fmicb.2014.00082
Hai, RT; Wang, YL; Wang, XH; Li, Y; Du, ZZ	Bacterial Community Dynamics and Taxa-Time Relationships within Two Activated Sludge Bioreactors	PLOS ONE	Background: Biological activated sludge process must be functionally stable to continuously remove contaminants while relying upon the activity of complex microbial communities. However the dynamics of these communities are as yet poorly understood. A macroecology metric used to quantify community dynamic is the taxa-time relationship (TTR). Although the TTR of animal and plant species has been well documented, knowledge is still lacking in regard to TTR of microbial communities in activated sludge bioreactors. Aims: 1) To characterize the temporal dynamics of bacterial taxa in activated sludge from two bioreactors of different scale and investigate factors affecting such dynamics; 2) to evaluate the TTRs of activated sludge microbial communities in two bioreactors of different scale. Methods: Temporal variation of bacterial taxa in activated sludge collected from a full-and lab-scale activated sludge bioreactor was monitored over a one-year period using pyrosequencing of 16S rRNA genes. TTR was employed to quantify the bacterial taxa shifts based on the power law equation S = cT(w). Results: The power law exponent w for the full-scale bioreactor was 0.43 (R-2 = 0.970), which is lower than that of the lab-scale bioreactor (w = 0.55, R-2 = 0.971). The exponents for the dominant phyla were generally higher than that of the rare phyla. Canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) result showed that the bacterial community variance was significantly associated with water temperature, influent (biochemical oxygen demand) BOD, bioreactor scale and dissolved oxygen (DO). Variance partitioning analyses suggested that wastewater characteristics had the greatest contribution to the bacterial community variance, explaining 20.3% of the variance of bacterial communities independently, followed by operational parameters (19.9%) and bioreactor scale (3.6%). Conclusions: Results of this study suggest bacterial community dynamics were likely driven partly by wastewater and operational parameters and provide evidence that the TTR may be a fundamental ecological pattern in macro- and microbial systems.	2014	10.1371/journal.pone.0090175
Caceres, CE; Tessier, AJ; Duffy, MA; Hall, SR	Disease in freshwater zooplankton: what have we learned and where are we going?	JOURNAL OF PLANKTON RESEARCH	In the last few decades, zooplankton (especially Daphnia) have emerged as a model system for examining the ecological and evolutionary roles of parasites in populations, communities and ecosystems. We build on this foundation, moving towards continued integration of epidemiology and community ecology to understand the distribution and abundance of infectious diseases. Future studies should link processes that occur over multiple time scales: from deep-time phylogenetic patterns that have shaped and been shaped by host-parasite interactions, to the dynamics that play out over decades or within seasons, to the physiological time scales over which parasites operate to infect and kill their hosts. We also consider how the combination of processes across multiple time scales has shaped the biogeography and changing mosaic of host-parasite interactions in time and space. Finally, we consider a future where zooplankton-parasite interactions are influenced by global change. The Daphnia-parasite model system offers a powerful tool to link anthropogenic changes to infectious diseases, including zoonotic diseases of significance to human health.	2014	10.1093/plankt/fbt136
Rodriguez-Ramos, T; Dornelas, M; Maranon, E; Cermeno, P	Conventional sampling methods severely underestimate phytoplankton species richness	JOURNAL OF PLANKTON RESEARCH	Conventional methods for the estimation of marine phytoplankton diversity include the collection of a small volume of seawater which is analysed under the microscope. We sampled natural communities and also synthetic communities generated under a neutral community model configuration and demonstrate that traditional sampling methods underestimate the species richness of marine phytoplankton communities. In our model, a synthetic community represents an ensemble of individuals enclosed in a parcel of seawater wherein the dynamics of each population is controlled by demographic stochasticity and dispersal. By sampling these synthetic communities, we found that roughly 20-45% of the species is missed by conventional, small volume samples. Consistent with the simulations, field data showed that the number of species increases with sampling effort by up to similar to 1.5-fold, revealing that these microbial communities might be more diverse than previously estimated. We suggest that conventional sampling methods have limited our ability to delineate the patterns of marine phytoplankton diversity and identify the underlying mechanisms. Improved sampling methods are proposed to obtain more accurate estimates of marine phytoplankton diversity.	2014	10.1093/plankt/fbt115
Dickson, RP; Erb-Downward, JR; Huffnagle, GB	Towards an ecology of the lung: new conceptual models of pulmonary microbiology and pneumonia pathogenesis	LANCET RESPIRATORY MEDICINE	Pneumonia is a major cause of morbidity and mortality for which no new methods of treatment have entered clinical practice since the discovery of antibiotics. Innovations in the techniques of culture-independent microbial identification have shown that the lungs, previously deemed sterile in the absence of infection, contain diverse and dynamic communities of microbes. In this Personal View, we argue that these observations have shown the inadequacy of traditional conceptual models of lung microbiology and the pathogenesis of pneumonia, hampering progress in research and practice. We propose three new conceptual models to replace the traditional models of lung microbiology: an adapted island model of lung biogeography, the effect of environmental gradients on lung microbiota, and pneumonia as an emergent phenomenon propelled by unexplored positive feedback loops. We argue that the ecosystem of lung microbiota has all of the features of a complex adaptive system: diverse entities interacting with each other within a common space, showing interdependent actions and possessing the capacity to adapt to changes in conditions. Complex adaptive systems are fundamentally different in behaviour from the simple, linear systems typified by the traditional model of pneumonia pathogenesis, and need distinct analytical approaches.	2014	
Zhong, X; Jacquet, S	Contrasting diversity of phycodnavirus signature genes in two large and western European lakes	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Little is known about Phycodnavirus (or double-stranded DNA algal virus) diversity in aquatic ecosystems, and virtually, no information has been provided for European lakes. We therefore conducted a 1-year survey of the surface waters of Frances two largest lakes, Annecy and Bourget, which are characterized by different trophic states and phytoplanktonic communities. We found complementary and contrasting diversity of phycodnavirus in the lakes based on two genetic markers, the B family DNA polymerase-encoding gene (polB) and the major capsid protein-encoding gene (mcp). These two core genes have already been used, albeit separately, to infer phylogenetic relationships and genetic diversity among members of the phycodnavirus family and to determine the occurrence and diversity of these genes in natural viral communities. While polB yielded prasinovirus-like sequences, the mcp primers yielded sequences for prasinoviruses, chloroviruses, prymnesioviruses and other groups not known from available databases. There was no significant difference in phycodnavirus populations between the two lakes when the sequences were pooled over the full year of investigation. By comparing Lakes Annecy and Bourget with data for other aquatic environments around the world, we show that these alpine lakes are clearly distinct from both other freshwater ecosystems (lakes and rivers) and marine environments, suggesting the influence of unique biogeographic factors.	2014	10.1111/1462-2920.12201
Sochting, U; Sogaard, MZ; Elix, JA; Arup, U; Elvebakk, A; Sancho, LG	Catenarina (Teloschistaceae, Ascomycota), a new Southern Hemisphere genus with 7-chlorocatenarin	LICHENOLOGIST	A new genus, Catenarina (Teloschistaceae, Ascomycota), with three species is described from the Southern Hemisphere, supported by molecular data. All species contain the secondary metabolite 7-chlorocatenarin, previously unknown in lichens. Catenarinadesolata is a non-littoral, lichenicolous species found on volcanic and soft sedimentary rock at 190-300 m in and near steppes in southernmost Chile and on the subantarctic island, Kerguelen. Catenarina vivasiana grows on maritime rocks and on rock outcrops in lowland Nothofagus forests, but has also been found at altitudes up to c. 580 m on moss and detritus on outcrops in Tierra del Fuego. The Antarctic species Caloplaca iomma is transferred to Catenarina based on chemical data; it grows on rocks near the coast in maritime Antarctica.	2014	10.1017/S002428291300087X
Moitinho-Silva, L; Bayer, K; Cannistraci, CV; Giles, EC; Ryu, T; Seridi, L; Ravasi, T; Hentschel, U	Specificity and transcriptional activity of microbiota associated with low and high microbial abundance sponges from the Red Sea	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	Marine sponges are generally classified as high microbial abundance (HMA) and low microbial abundance (LMA) species. Here, 16S rRNA amplicon sequencing was applied to investigate the diversity, specificity and transcriptional activity of microbes associated with an LMA sponge (Stylissa carteri), an HMA sponge (Xestospongia testudinaria) and sea water collected from the central Saudi Arabia coast of the Red Sea. Altogether, 887068 denoised sequences were obtained, of which 806661 sequences remained after quality control. This resulted in 1477 operational taxonomic units (OTUs) that were assigned to 27 microbial phyla. The microbial composition of S. carteri was more similar to that of sea water than to that of X.testudinaria, which is consistent with the observation that the sequence data set of S.carteri contained many more possibly sea water sequences (~24%) than the X.testudinaria data set (~6%). The most abundant OTUs were shared between all three sources (S.carteri, X.testudinaria, sea water), while rare OTUs were unique to any given source. Despite this high degree of overlap, each sponge species contained its own specific microbiota. The X.testudinaria-specific bacterial taxa were similar to those already described for this species. A set of S.carteri-specific bacterial taxa related to Proteobacteria and Nitrospira was identified, which are likely permanently associated with S.carteri. The transcriptional activity of sponge-associated microorganisms correlated well with their abundance. Quantitative PCR revealed the presence of Poribacteria, representing typical sponge symbionts, in both sponge species and in sea water; however, low transcriptional activity in sea water suggested that Poribacteria are not active outside the host context.	2014	10.1111/mec.12365
Herrera, CM; Pozo, MI; Bazaga, P	Nonrandom genotype distribution among floral hosts contributes to local and regional genetic diversity in the nectar-living yeast Metschnikowia reukaufii	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Environmental heterogeneity has been often suggested as a major driving force preserving genetic variation in clonal microorganisms. This study examines this hypothesis for the specialized nectar-dwelling, clonal yeast Metschnikowia reukaufii (Ascomycota, Saccharomycetales). We examined whether M.reukaufii subpopulations associated with flowers of different host plant species, and different individuals of the same host species, differed in genetic characteristics. Amplified fragment length polymorphisms (AFLP) fingerprints of M.reukaufii strains isolated from floral nectar of different host species and individuals sampled at different spatial scales revealed a strong host-mediated component of genetic and genotypic diversity at all scales considered. Genotypes were nonrandomly distributed among flowers of different species and, in the case of the single host species studied in detail (Helleborus foetidus), also among flowers of conspecific individuals coexisting locally. These host-mediated patterns of genetic structuring are compatible with those expected under the diversifying selection hypothesis for the maintenance of local and regional genetic diversity in clonal organisms. It is proposed that a combination of intrafloral selection and biased pollinator-mediated migration may ultimately account for observed host-mediated genetic structuring in populations of M.reukaufii.	2014	10.1111/1574-6941.12245
Xiong, JB; Ye, XS; Wang, K; Chen, HP; Hu, CJ; Zhu, JL; Zhang, DM	Biogeography of the Sediment Bacterial Community Responds to a Nitrogen Pollution Gradient in the East China Sea	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Patterns of microbial distribution represent the integrated effects of historical and biological processes and are thus a central issue in ecology. However, there is still active debate on whether dispersal limitation contributes to microbial diversification in strongly connected systems. In this study, sediment samples were collected along a transect representing a variety of seawater pollution levels in the East China Sea. We investigated whether changes in sediment bacterial community structures would indicate the effects of the pollution gradient and of dispersal limitation. Our results showed consistent shifts in bacterial communities in response to pollution. More geographically distant sites had more dissimilar communities (r = -0.886, P < 0.001) in this strongly connected sediment ecosystem. A variance analysis based on partitioning by principal coordinates of neighbor matrices (PCNM) showed that spatial distance (dispersal limitation) contributed more to bacterial community variation (8.2%) than any other factor, although the environmental factors explained more variance when combined (11.2%). In addition, potential indicator taxa (primarily affiliated with Deltaproteobacteria and Gammaproteobacteria) were identified; these taxa characterized the pollution gradient. This study provides direct evidence that dispersal limitation exists in a strongly connected marine sediment ecosystem and that candidate indicator taxa can be applied to evaluate coastal pollution levels.	2014	10.1128/AEM.03731-13
Pailler, A; Vennetier, M; Torre, F; Ripert, C; Guiral, D	Forest soil microbial functional patterns and response to a drought and warming event: Key role of climate-plant-soil interactions at a regional scale	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	Little is known about how spatial and environmental patterns structure soil microbial activities. We investigated, on 47 soil samples collected in Mediterranean forests, the net and interaction effects of climatic-geographic and edaphic variables as well as vegetation cover and composition on soil microbial community-level physiological profiles (CLPPs) assessed by Microresp (TM). The effects of these variables were also analyzed on CLPP response to an experimental drought treatment. CLPPs were shown to be mainly driven by climate-plant-soil and plant-soil interactions; even after drought treatment, there was a decrease in microbial activity but no change in CLPPs. Our findings highlight the robustness of these relationships, which need to be assessed within different ecosystems considering various spatial scales to reliably predict climate change effects on terrestrial ecosystems. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2014	10.1016/j.soilbio.2013.12.003
Liu, JJ; Sui, YY; Yu, ZH; Shi, Y; Chu, HY; Jin, J; Liu, XB; Wang, GH	High throughput sequencing analysis of biogeographical distribution of bacterial communities in the black soils of northeast China	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	Black soils (Mollisols) are one of the most important soil resources for maintaining food security of China and are mainly distributed in northeast China. To understand which environmental factors influence the microbial communities and how the communities are distributed in the black soils, we collected 26 soil samples with different soil carbon contents across the black soil zone in northeast China, and the soil bacterial community compositions were estimated using high resolution bar-coded pyrosequencing. A total of 355,813 bacterial 16S rDNA sequences were obtained, which were classified into at least 35 bacterial groups. The dominant groups across all samples (>5% of all sequences) were Acidobacteria, Actinobacteria, Proteobacteria, Bacteroidetes, Chloroflexi, Gemmatimonadetes and Planctomycetes. The composition and diversity of the soil bacterial community were dominantly affected by both soil pH and soil total carbon content, and the effect of soil pH was stronger than that of soil carbon content. Variance partitioning analysis showed that geographic distance contributed 14.75% of the bacterial community variation, and soil environmental factors explained approximately 37.52% of the variation. Pairwise analysis showed that a relatively higher diversity of the bacterial community was observed at lower latitudes, suggesting that a latitudinal diversity gradient of the bacterial community might be present in the black soil zone. In general, our results indicated that contemporary factors, such as soil pH and soil carbon content, were more important than the historical factor of geographic distance in shaping the bacterial community in the black soil zone in northeast China. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2014	10.1016/j.soilbio.2013.12.014
Lebeda, A; Kristkova, E; Kitner, M; Mieslerova, B; Jemelkova, M; Pink, DAC	Wild Lactuca species, their genetic diversity, resistance to diseases and pests, and exploitation in lettuce breeding	EUROPEAN JOURNAL OF PLANT PATHOLOGY	Current knowledge of wild Lactuca L. species, their taxonomy, biogeography, gene-pools, germplasm collection quality and quantity, and accession availability is reviewed in this paper. Genetic diversity of Lactuca spp. is characterized at the level of phenotypic and phenological variation, variation in karyology and DNA content, biochemical traits, and protein and molecular polymorphism. The reported variation in reaction to pathogens and pests of wild Lactuca spp. is summarized, including the viral pathogens (Lettuce mosaic virus-LMV, Mirafiori lettuce virus/Lettuce big vein virus-LBV, Beet western yellows virus-BWYV, Tomato spotted wilt virus-TSWV, Cucumber mosaic virus-CMV, Lettuce necrotic stunt virus-LNSV), bacterial pathogens (corky root-Rhizomonas suberifaciens, bacterial leaf spot-Xanthomonas campestris pv. vitians), fungal pathogens (downy mildew-Bremia lactucae, powdery mildew-Golovinomyces cichoracearum, anthracnose-Microdochium panattoniana, stemphylium leaf spot-Stemphylium spp., sclerotinia drop-Sclerotinia spp., verticillium wilt-Verticillium dahliae, fusarium wilt-Fusarium spp., pythium wilt-Pythium tracheiphylum, P. uncinulatum), nematodes (potato cyst nematode-Globodera rostochiensis, root-knot nematode-Meloidogyne spp., incognita, hapla, javanica, enterolobii), insects and mites (the green lettuce aphid-Nasonovia ribisnigri, the green peach aphid-Myzus persicae, the potato aphid-Macrosiphum euphorbiae, leafminer-Liriomyza spp., L. langei). The approaches used to exploit wild Lactuca spp. in lettuce breeding (interspecific hybridization, cell and tissue culture, transformation) are dicussed, and known examples of lettuce cultivars with traits derived from wild Lactuca spp. are described.	2014	10.1007/s10658-013-0254-z
Thaler, M; Lovejoy, C	Environmental selection of marine stramenopile clades in the Arctic Ocean and coastal waters	POLAR BIOLOGY	Single-celled bacterial grazers are key components of marine ecosystems, and at times represent the dominant eukaryotes in the Arctic Ocean. Among these are small, phylogenetically diverse stramenopiles, known almost exclusively from their 18S rRNA gene sequences. Marine stramenopiles (MAST) have been found in the upper waters of the world ocean and in all Arctic seas. In particular, three sub-clades of MAST-1, MAST-1A, 1B and 1C co-occur in Arctic waters, but ecological and distributional details are lacking. Here, we have updated phylogenies of the MAST-1 clade to test whether there are Arctic-specific MAST-1 ecotypes. In addition, taking advantage of samples collected over 2 years as part of several Arctic cruises leading up to and during the International Polar Year, we applied sub-clade-specific probes and fluorescent in situ hybridization to describe the distribution of the three sub-clades in the Canadian Arctic. The three groups were found principally in the euphotic zone; however, evidence of Arctic ecotypes remains elusive. Some environment-specific separation among sub-clades was detected, with MAST-1C reaching significantly greater concentrations near the marginal ice zone, while MAST-1A and MAST-1B were associated with ice-covered and open-water stations, respectively. MAST-1B appeared to be able to persist at greater depths. Changing ice cover and mixing regimes are therefore expected to have an impact on the concentrations and distribution of these sub-clades, with possible downstream consequences on the marine food webs.	2014	10.1007/s00300-013-1435-0
Wolf, C; Frickenhaus, S; Kilias, ES; Peeken, I; Metfies, K	Protist community composition in the Pacific sector of the Southern Ocean during austral summer 2010	POLAR BIOLOGY	Knowledge about the protist diversity of the Pacific sector of the Southern Ocean is scarce. We tested the hypothesis that distinct protist community assemblages characterize large-scale water masses. Therefore, we determined the composition and biogeography of late summer protist assemblages along a transect from the coast of New Zealand to the eastern Ross Sea. We used state of the art molecular approaches, such as automated ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis and 454-pyrosequencing, combined with high-performance liquid chromatography pigment analysis to study the protist assemblage. We found distinct biogeographic patterns defined by the environmental conditions in the particular region. Different water masses harbored different microbial communities. In contrast to the Arctic Ocean, picoeukaryotes had minor importance throughout the investigated transect and showed very low contribution south of the Polar Front. Dinoflagellates, Syndiniales, and small stramenopiles were dominating the sequence assemblage in the Subantarctic Zone, whereas the relative abundance of diatoms increased southwards, in the Polar Frontal Zone and Antarctic Zone. South of the Polar Front, most sequences belonged to haptophytes. This study delivers a comprehensive and taxon detailed overview of the protist composition in the investigated area during the austral summer 2010.	2014	10.1007/s00300-013-1438-x
Joly, S; Davies, TJ; Archambault, A; Bruneau, A; Derry, A; Kembel, SW; Peres-Neto, P; Vamosi, J; Wheeler, TA	Ecology in the age of DNA barcoding: the resource, the promise and the challenges ahead	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY RESOURCES	Ten years after DNA barcoding was initially suggested as a tool to identify species, millions of barcode sequences from more than 1100 species are available in public databases. While several studies have reviewed the methods and potential applications of DNA barcoding, most have focused on species identification and discovery, and relatively few have addressed applications of DNA barcoding data to ecology. These data, and the associated information on the evolutionary histories of taxa that they can provide, offer great opportunities for ecologists to investigate questions that were previously difficult or impossible to address. We present an overview of potential uses of DNA barcoding relevant in the age of ecoinformatics, including applications in community ecology, species invasion, macroevolution, trait evolution, food webs and trophic interactions, metacommunities, and spatial ecology. We also outline some of the challenges and potential advances in DNA barcoding that lie ahead.	2014	10.1111/1755-0998.12173
Raposeiro, PM; Martins, GM; Moniz, I; Cunha, A; Costa, AC; Goncalves, V	Leaf litter decomposition in remote oceanic islands: The role of macroinvertebrates vs. microbial decomposition of native vs. exotic plant species	LIMNOLOGICA	Freshwater communities on remote oceanic islands can be depauperate due to the influence of biogeographic processes that operate over a range of spatial scales, influencing the colonization of organisms, and events that shape local freshwater assemblages. The consequences of this paucity in organism diversity for the functioning of these ecosystems are, however, not well understood. Here, we examine the relative decomposition rate of leaf litter of native vs. exotic origin by aquatic macroinvertebrates and microbial communities in an isolated and depauperate oceanic environment. Bags containing a standard amount of leaf litter of each of 10 tree species (5 native and 5 non-native species) were deployed on two streams. Two types of bags differing in mesh size were used to allow or prevent the access of leaf litter to macroinvertebrates, respectively. Over a period of 28 days, mass loss of leaf litter was similar in the two bag types suggesting that macroinvertebrates had little influence on the break down of leaf litter in this system. In addition, there was no difference in mass loss of leaf litter of native and exotic origin. Decomposition rates were highly species-specific suggesting that decomposition rates were related to inhibitory substance specific of each leaf species. Our results add to the wider literature by showing that in depauperate and isolated ecosystems, and in contrast to temperate continental ecosystems, decomposition of plant litter by aquatic macroinvertebrates is negligible. (C) 2013 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.	2014	10.1016/j.limno.2013.10.006
Wlodarska, M; Thaiss, CA; Nowarski, R; Henao-Mejia, J; Zhang, JP; Brown, EM; Frankel, G; Levy, M; Katz, MN; Philbrick, WM; Elinav, E; Finlay, BB; Flavell, RA	NLRP6 Inflammasome Orchestrates the Colonic Host-Microbial Interface by Regulating Goblet Cell Mucus Secretion	CELL	Mucusproduction by goblet cells of the large intestine serves as a crucial antimicrobial protective mechanism at the interface between the eukaryotic and prokaryotic cells of the mammalian intestinal ecosystem. However, the regulatory pathways involved in goblet cell-induced mucus secretion remain largely unknown. Here, we demonstrate that the NLRP6 inflammasome, a recently described regulator of colonic microbiota composition and biogeographical distribution, is a critical orchestrator of goblet cell mucin granule exocytosis. NLRP6 deficiency leads to defective autophagy in goblet cells and abrogated mucus secretion into the large intestinal lumen. Consequently, NLRP6 inflammasome-deficient mice are unable to clear enteric pathogens from the mucosal surface, rendering them highly susceptible to persistent infection. This study identifies an innate immune regulatory pathway governing goblet cell mucus secretion, linking nonhematopoietic inflammasome signaling to autophagy and highlighting the goblet cell as a critical innate immune player in the control of intestinal host-microbial mutualism.	2014	10.1016/j.cell.2014.01.026
Hu, AY; Yang, XY; Chen, NW; Hou, LY; Ma, Y; Yu, CP	Response of bacterial communities to environmental changes in a mesoscale subtropical watershed, Southeast China	SCIENCE OF THE TOTAL ENVIRONMENT	This study used 16S rRNA gene-based pyrosequencing (16S-pyrotag) to investigate both planktonic and benthic bacterial communities in two main tributaries (North River and West River) of the Jiulong River Watershed (JRW), a mesoscale subtropical watershed that has experienced intensive human perturbation in recent decades. The results of 16S-pyrotag showed that benthic bacterial communities were clearly more diverse and uniform than surface bacterioplankton communities. The results of taxonomic assignments indicated that Betaproteobacteria, Actinobacteria and Firmicutes were significantly more abundant in planktonic than in benthic communities, whereas the relative abundances of Acidobacteria, Delta-, Gammaproteobacteria, Chloroflexi and Nitrospira were higher in sediment than in water samples. In particular, several sewer- and fecal-pollution bacterial indicators were observed in water samples, implying that the water bodies of the JRW were contaminated by fecal pollution. Using the typical freshwater bacteria (TFB) taxonomic framework, 57.6 +/- 10%, 27.6 +/- 10.9% and 10.4 +/- 6.9% of sequences recovered from planktonic communities could be assigned to lineages, clades and tribes of TFB, respectively. The relatively lower abundance of TFB implied that some unknown or unique autochthonous bacterioplankton populations occurred in the JRW. The principal coordinate analysis (PCoA) and one way analysis of similarity (ANOSIM) analysis demonstrated that planktonic bacterial community structures were significantly different between North River and West River, whereas benthic communities from these two tributaries were grouped together. Multivariate statistical analysis revealed that nutrient concentrations and stoichiometry were the key drivers of both alpha- and beta-diversity patterns of bacterioplankton communities. Overall, our results indicate that the diversity, composition and structure of planktonic bacterial communities are sensitive to water chemistry (e.g., nutrient concentrations and stoichiometry) in the JRW, and therefore can serve as a good sentinel of environmental changes in this watershed. (C) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2014	10.1016/j.scitotenv.2013.11.097
Duncan, K; Haltli, B; Gill, KA; Kerr, RG	Bioprospecting from Marine Sediments of New Brunswick, Canada: Exploring the Relationship between Total Bacterial Diversity and Actinobacteria Diversity	MARINE DRUGS	Actinomycetes are an important resource for the discovery of natural products with therapeutic properties. Bioprospecting for actinomycetes typically proceeds without a priori knowledge of the bacterial diversity present in sampled habitats. In this study, we endeavored to determine if overall bacterial diversity in marine sediments, as determined by 16S rDNA amplicon pyrosequencing, could be correlated with culturable actinomycete diversity, and thus serve as a powerful tool in guiding future bioprospecting efforts. Overall bacterial diversity was investigated in eight marine sediments from four sites in New Brunswick, Canada, resulting in over 44,000 high quality sequences ((x) over bar = 5610 per sample). Analysis revealed all sites exhibited significant diversity (H = 5.4 to 6.7). Furthermore, statistical analysis of species level bacterial communities (D = 0.03) indicated community composition varied according to site and was strongly influenced by sediment physiochemical composition. In contrast, cultured actinomycetes (n = 466, 98.3% Streptomyces) were ubiquitously distributed among all sites and distribution was not influenced by sediment composition, suggesting that the biogeography of culturable actinomycetes does not correlate with overall bacterial diversity in the samples examined. These actinomycetes provide a resource for future secondary metabolite discovery, as exemplified by the antimicrobial activity observed from preliminary investigation.	2014	10.3390/md12020899
Andrus, JM; Porter, MD; Rodriguez, LF; Kuehlhorn, T; Cooke, RAC; Zhang, YH; Kent, AD; Zilles, JL	Spatial Variation in the Bacterial and Denitrifying Bacterial Community in a Biofilter Treating Subsurface Agricultural Drainage	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Denitrifying biofilters can remove agricultural nitrates from subsurface drainage, reducing nitrate pollution that contributes to coastal hypoxic zones. The performance and reliability of natural and engineered systems dependent upon microbially mediated processes, such as the denitrifying biofilters, can be affected by the spatial structure of their microbial communities. Furthermore, our understanding of the relationship between microbial community composition and function is influenced by the spatial distribution of samples. In this study we characterized the spatial structure of bacterial communities in a denitrifying biofilter in central Illinois. Bacterial communities were assessed using automated ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis for bacteria and terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism of nosZ for denitrifying bacteria. Non-metric multidimensional scaling and analysis of similarity (ANOSIM) analyses indicated that bacteria showed statistically significant spatial structure by depth and transect, while denitrifying bacteria did not exhibit significant spatial structure. For determination of spatial patterns, we developed a package of automated functions for the R statistical environment that allows directional analysis of microbial community composition data using either ANOSIM or Mantel statistics. Applying this package to the biofilter data, the flow path correlation range for the bacterial community was 6.4 m at the shallower, periodically inundated depth and 10.7 m at the deeper, continually submerged depth. These spatial structures suggest a strong influence of hydrology on the microbial community composition in these denitrifying biofilters. Understanding such spatial structure can also guide optimal sample collection strategies for microbial community analyses.	2014	10.1007/s00248-013-0286-0
David-Palma, M; Libkind, D; Sampaio, JP	Global distribution, diversity hot spots and niche transitions of an astaxanthin-producing eukaryotic microbe	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	Microbes establish very diverse but still poorly understood associations with other microscopic or macroscopic organisms that do not follow the more conventional modes of competition or mutualism. Phaffia rhodozyma, an orange-coloured yeast that produces the biotechnologically relevant carotenoid astaxanthin, exhibits a Holarctic association with birch trees in temperate forests that contrasts with the more recent finding of a South American population associated with Nothofagus (southern beech) and with stromata of its biotrophic fungal parasite Cyttaria spp. We investigated whether the association of Phaffia with Nothofagus-Cyttaria could be expanded to Australasia, the other region of the world where Nothofagus are endemic, studied the genetic structure of populations representing the known worldwide distribution of Phaffia and analysed the evolution of the association with tree hosts. The phylogenetic analysis revealed that Phaffia diversity in Australasia is much higher than in other regions of the globe and that two endemic and markedly divergent lineages seem to represent new species. The observed genetic diversity correlates with host tree genera rather than with geography, which suggests that adaptation to the different niches is driving population structure in this yeast. The high genetic diversity and endemism in Australasia indicate that the genus evolved in this region and that the association with Nothofagus is the ancestral tree association. Estimates of the divergence times of Phaffia lineages point to splits that are much more recent than the break-up of Gondwana, supporting that long-distance dispersal rather than vicariance is responsible for observed distribution of P.rhodozyma.	2014	10.1111/mec.12642
Zinger, L; Boetius, A; Ramette, A	Bacterial taxa-area and distance-decay relationships in marine environments	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	The taxa-area relationship (TAR) and the distance-decay relationship (DDR) both describe spatial turnover of taxa and are central patterns of biodiversity. Here, we compared TAR and DDR of bacterial communities across different marine realms and ecosystems at the global scale. To obtain reliable global estimates for both relationships, we quantified the poorly assessed effects of sequencing depth, rare taxa removal and number of sampling sites. Slope coefficients of bacterial TARs were within the range of those of plants and animals, whereas slope coefficients of bacterial DDR were much lower. Slope coefficients were mostly affected by removing rare taxa and by the number of sampling sites considered in the calculations. TAR and DDR slope coefficients were overestimated at sequencing depth <4000 sequences per sample. Noticeably, bacterial TAR and DDR patterns did not correlate with each other both within and across ecosystem types, suggesting that (i) TAR cannot be directly derived from DDR and (ii) TAR and DDR may be influenced by different ecological factors. Nevertheless, we found marine bacterial TAR and DDR to be steeper in ecosystems associated with high environmental heterogeneity or spatial isolation, namely marine sediments and coastal environments compared with pelagic ecosystems. Hence, our study provides information on macroecological patterns of marine bacteria, as well as methodological and conceptual insights, at a time when biodiversity surveys increasingly make use of high-throughput sequencing technologies.	2014	10.1111/mec.12640
Zuo, GH; Hao, BL; Staley, JT	Geographic divergence of Sulfolobus islandicus strains assessed by genomic analyses including electronic DNA hybridization confirms they are geovars	ANTONIE VAN LEEUWENHOEK INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF GENERAL AND MOLECULAR MICROBIOLOGY	Ten well-annotated genomes of Sulfolobus islandicus strains from different geographic locations have been released at the NCBI database. Whole genome based composition vector trees indicate that these strains show the same branching patterns as originally reported by multi-locus sequence analysis. To determine whether the ten strains meet the criteria for separate species, DNA-DNA hybridization (DDH) was performed in silico. DDH values of strains from the same geographic location, i.e., Iceland, Kamchatka and North America, ranged from 82.4 to 95.4 %, clearly qualifying them as members of the same species. The lowest DDH values found between locations ranged from 75.5 to 76.6 %, which exceed the 70 % DDH threshold for a species thereby indicating they are all members of the same species based on the currently accepted definition. The clear divergences of strains from the different geographic locations are sufficiently great to consider them as separate geovars. S. islandicus has not yet been validly named and a type strain has not been deposited in culture collections. We urgently recommend that those who study the organism fulfill the criteria of the International Code of Nomenclature of Bacteria in order to designate a type strain and to identify and deposit related strains of this species to make them available to the broader scientific community.	2014	10.1007/s10482-013-0081-4
Han, D; Kang, I; Ha, HK; Kim, HC; Kim, OS; Lee, BY; Cho, JC; Hur, HG; Lee, YK	Bacterial Communities of Surface Mixed Layer in the Pacific Sector of the Western Arctic Ocean during Sea-Ice Melting	PLOS ONE	From July to August 2010, the IBRV ARAON journeyed to the Pacific sector of the Arctic Ocean to monitor bacterial variation in Arctic summer surface-waters, and temperature, salinity, fluorescence, and nutrient concentrations were determined during the ice-melting season. Among the measured physicochemical parameters, we observed a strong negative correlation between temperature and salinity, and consequently hypothesized that the melting ice decreased water salinity. The bacterial community compositions of 15 samples, includicng seawater, sea-ice, and melting pond water, were determined using a pyrosequencing approach and were categorized into three habitats: (1) surface seawater, (2) ice core, and (3) melting pond. Analysis of these samples indicated the presence of local bacterial communities; a deduction that was further corroborated by the discovery of seawater- and ice-specific bacterial phylotypes. In all samples, the Alphaproteobacteria, Flavobacteria, and Gammaproteobacteria taxa composed the majority of the bacterial communities. Among these, Alphaproteobacteria was the most abundant and present in all samples, and its variation differed among the habitats studied. Linear regression analysis suggested that changes in salinity could affect the relative proportion of Alphaproteobacteria in the surface water. In addition, the species-sorting model was applied to evaluate the population dynamics and environmental heterogeneity in the bacterial communities of surface mixed layer in the Arctic Ocean during sea-ice melting.	2014	10.1371/journal.pone.0086887
Kembel, SW; Meadow, JF; OConnor, TK; Mhuireach, G; Northcutt, D; Kline, J; Moriyama, M; Brown, GZ; Bohannan, BJM; Green, JL	Architectural Design Drives the Biogeography of Indoor Bacterial Communities	PLOS ONE	Background: Architectural design has the potential to influence the microbiology of the built environment, with implications for human health and well-being, but the impact of design on the microbial biogeography of buildings remains poorly understood. In this study we combined microbiological data with information on the function, form, and organization of spaces from a classroom and office building to understand how design choices influence the biogeography of the built environment microbiome. Results: Sequencing of the bacterial 16S gene from dust samples revealed that indoor bacterial communities were extremely diverse, containing more than 32,750 OTUs (operational taxonomic units, 97% sequence similarity cutoff), but most communities were dominated by Proteobacteria, Firmicutes, and Deinococci. Architectural design characteristics related to space type, building arrangement, human use and movement, and ventilation source had a large influence on the structure of bacterial communities. Restrooms contained bacterial communities that were highly distinct from all other rooms, and spaces with high human occupant diversity and a high degree of connectedness to other spaces via ventilation or human movement contained a distinct set of bacterial taxa when compared to spaces with low occupant diversity and low connectedness. Within offices, the source of ventilation air had the greatest effect on bacterial community structure. Conclusions: Our study indicates that humans have a guiding impact on the microbial biodiversity in buildings, both indirectly through the effects of architectural design on microbial community structure, and more directly through the effects of human occupancy and use patterns on the microbes found in different spaces and space types. The impact of design decisions in structuring the indoor microbiome offers the possibility to use ecological knowledge to shape our buildings in a way that will select for an indoor microbiome that promotes our health and well-being.	2014	10.1371/journal.pone.0087093
Xiang, XJ; Shi, Y; Yang, J; Kong, JJ; Lin, XG; Zhang, HY; Zeng, J; Chu, HY	Rapid recovery of soil bacterial communities after wildfire in a Chinese boreal forest	SCIENTIFIC REPORTS	Fires affect hundreds of millions of hectares annually. Above-ground community composition and diversity after fire have been studied extensively, but effects of fire on soil bacterial communities remain largely unexamined despite the central role of bacteria in ecosystem recovery and functioning. We investigated responses of bacterial community to forest fire in the Greater Khingan Mountains, China, using tagged pyrosequencing. Fire altered soil bacterial community composition substantially and high-intensity fire significantly decreased bacterial diversity 1-year-after-burn site. Bacterial community composition and diversity returned to similar levels as observed in controls (no fire) after 11 years. The understory vegetation community typically takes 20-100 years to reach pre-fire states in boreal forest, so our results suggest that soil bacteria could recover much faster than plant communities. Finally, soil bacterial community composition significantly co-varied with soil pH, moisture content, NH4+ content and carbon/nitrogen ratio (P < 0.05 in all cases) in wildfire-perturbed soils, suggesting that fire could indirectly affect bacterial communities by altering soil edaphic properties.	2014	10.1038/srep03829
Carbonero, F; Oakley, BB; Purdy, KJ	Metabolic Flexibility as a Major Predictor of Spatial Distribution in Microbial Communities	PLOS ONE	A better understand the ecology of microbes and their role in the global ecosystem could be achieved if traditional ecological theories can be applied to microbes. In ecology organisms are defined as specialists or generalists according to the breadth of their niche. Spatial distribution is often used as a proxy measure of niche breadth; generalists have broad niches and a wide spatial distribution and specialists a narrow niche and spatial distribution. Previous studies suggest that microbial distribution patterns are contrary to this idea; a microbial generalist genus (Desulfobulbus) has a limited spatial distribution while a specialist genus (Methanosaeta) has a cosmopolitan distribution. Therefore, we hypothesise that this counter-intuitive distribution within generalist and specialist microbial genera is a common microbial characteristic. Using molecular fingerprinting the distribution of four microbial genera, two generalists, Desulfobulbus and the methanogenic archaea Methanosarcina, and two specialists, Methanosaeta and the sulfate-reducing bacteria Desulfobacter were analysed in sediment samples from along a UK estuary. Detected genotypes of both generalist genera showed a distinct spatial distribution, significantly correlated with geographic distance between sites. Genotypes of both specialist genera showed no significant differential spatial distribution. These data support the hypothesis that the spatial distribution of specialist and generalist microbes does not match that seen with specialist and generalist large organisms. It may be that generalist microbes, while having a wider potential niche, are constrained, possibly by intrageneric competition, to exploit only a small part of that potential niche while specialists, with far fewer constraints to their niche, are more capable of filling their potential niche more effectively, perhaps by avoiding intrageneric competition. We suggest that these counter-intuitive distribution patterns may be a common feature of microbes in general and represent a distinct microbial principle in ecology, which is a real challenge if we are to develop a truly inclusive ecology.	2014	10.1371/journal.pone.0085105
Blasiak, LC; Schmidt, AW; Andriamiarinoro, H; Mulaw, T; Rasolomampianina, R; Applequist, WL; Birkinshaw, C; Rejo-Fienena, F; Lowry, PP; Schmidt, TM; Hill, RT	Bacterial Communities in Malagasy Soils with Differing Levels of Disturbance Affecting Botanical Diversity	PLOS ONE	Madagascar is well-known for the exceptional biodiversity of its macro-flora and fauna, but the biodiversity of Malagasy microbial communities remains relatively unexplored. Understanding patterns of bacterial diversity in soil and their correlations with above-ground botanical diversity could influence conservation planning as well as sampling strategies to maximize access to bacterially derived natural products. We present the first detailed description of Malagasy soil bacterial communities from a targeted 16S rRNA gene survey of greater than 290,000 sequences generated using 454 pyrosequencing. Two sampling plots in each of three forest conservation areas were established to represent different levels of disturbance resulting from human impact through agriculture and selective exploitation of trees, as well as from natural impacts of cyclones. In parallel, we performed an in-depth characterization of the total vascular plant morphospecies richness within each plot. The plots representing different levels of disturbance within each forest did not differ significantly in bacterial diversity or richness. Changes in bacterial community composition were largest between forests rather than between different levels of impact within a forest. The largest difference in bacterial community composition with disturbance was observed at the Vohibe forest conservation area, and this difference was correlated with changes in both vascular plant richness and soil pH. These results provide the first survey of Malagasy soil bacterial diversity and establish a baseline of botanical diversity within important conservation areas.	2014	10.1371/journal.pone.0085097
Aujoulat, F; Romano-Bertrand, S; Masnou, A; Marchandin, H; Jumas-Bilak, E	Niches, Population Structure and Genome Reduction in Ochrobactrum intermedium: Clues to Technology-Driven Emergence of Pathogens	PLOS ONE	Ochrobactrum intermedium is considered as an emerging human environmental opportunistic pathogen with mild virulence. The distribution of isolates and sequences described in literature and databases showed frequent association with human beings and polluted environments. As population structures are related to bacterial lifestyles, we investigated by multi-locus approach the genetic structure of a population of 65 isolates representative of the known natural distribution of O. intermedium. The population was further surveyed for genome dynamics using pulsed-field gel electrophoresis and genomics. The population displayed a clonal epidemic structure with events of recombination that occurred mainly in clonal complexes. Concerning biogeography, clones were shared by human and environments and were both cosmopolitan and local. The main cosmopolitan clone was genetically and genomically stable, and grouped isolates that all harbored an atypical insertion in the rrs. Ubiquitism and stability of this major clone suggested a clonal succes in a particular niche. Events of genomic reduction were detected in the population and the deleted genomic content was described for one isolate. O. intermedium displayed allopatric characters associated to a tendancy of genome reduction suggesting a specialization process. Considering its relatedness with Brucella, this specialization might be a commitment toward pathogenic life-style that could be driven by technological selective pressure related medical and industrial technologies.	2014	10.1371/journal.pone.0083376
Bokulich, NA; Thorngate, JH; Richardson, PM; Mills, DA	Microbial biogeography of wine grapes is conditioned by cultivar, vintage, and climate	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	Wine grapes present a unique biogeography model, wherein microbial biodiversity patterns across viticultural zones not only answer questions of dispersal and community maintenance, they are also an inherent component of the quality, consumer acceptance, and economic appreciation of a culturally important food product. On their journey from the vineyard to the wine bottle, grapes are transformed to wine through microbial activity, with indisputable consequences for wine quality parameters. Wine grapes harbor a wide range of microbes originating from the surrounding environment, many of which are recognized for their role in grapevine health and wine quality. However, determinants of regional wine characteristics have not been identified, but are frequently assumed to stem from viticultural or geological factors alone. This study used a high-throughput, short-amplicon sequencing approach to demonstrate that regional, site-specific, and grape-variety factors shape the fungal and bacterial consortia inhabiting wine-grape surfaces. Furthermore, these microbial assemblages are correlated to specific climatic features, suggesting a link between vineyard environmental conditions and microbial inhabitation patterns. Taken together, these factors shape the unique microbial inputs to regional wine fermentations, posing the existence of nonrandom microbial terroir as a determining factor in regional variation among wine grapes.	2014	10.1073/pnas.1317377110
Rojas, C; Calvo, E	Additions to the myxobiota of Central America	MYCOSPHERE	Given the fact that until recently the myxomycetes were an understudied group in Central America, it is not surprising that the number of new records for most countries is currently increasing at a steady pace. This is significant in light of the fact that Central America is located within the Mesoamerican Biodiversity Hotspot and is projected to lose an appreciable percentage of its biodiversity due to global phenomena before the middle of this century. In the present study, which was conceived as an approach to equilibrate the information on myxomycetes among Central American countries, 23 unlisted records for Honduras, El Salvador and Costa Rica are provided. In particular, a record of the myxomycete Cornuvia serpula from the last country is noteworthy due its rarity in tropical areas of the world. The type of regional distributional information presented in this study represents baseline data for ecological monitoring purposes, which are essential for the conservation of the microbial biota and ecosystem functioning worldwide.	2014	10.5943/mycosphere/5/3/11
Dennehy, JJ	What Ecologists Can Tell Virologists	ANNUAL REVIEW OF MICROBIOLOGY, VOL 68	Ecology as a science evolved from natural history, the observational study of the interactions of plants and animals with each other and their environments. As natural history matured, it became increasingly quantitative, experimental, and taxonomically broad. Focus diversified beyond the Eukarya to include the hidden world of microbial life. Microbes, particularly viruses, were shown to exist in unfathomable numbers, affecting every living organism. Slowly viruses came to be viewed in an ecological context rather than as abstract, disease-causing agents. This shift is exemplified by an increasing tendency to refer to viruses as living organisms instead of inert particles. In recent years, researchers have recognized the critical contributions of viruses to fundamental ecological processes such as biogeochemical cycling, competition, community structuring, and horizontal gene transfer. This review describes virus ecology from a viruss perspective. If we are, like Jonas Salk, to imagine ourselves as a virus, what kind of world would we experience?	2014	10.1146/annurev-micro-091313-103436
Rautian, M; Przybos, E; Surmacz, M; Lebedeva, N	New Stands of Species of the Paramecium aurelia Complex in Africa and Europe	FOLIA BIOLOGICA-KRAKOW	The relevance of geographical distribution and the roles of dispersal and spatial isolation during the speciation of microorganisms are nowadays of great interest. The Paramecium aurelia species complex is a perfect model system to explore these questions given its long history as a study subject and broad distribution. However, the world-wide distribution of the Paramecium aurelia complex (Ciliophora, Protista) still needs study, e.g. sampling in the southern hemisphere has been quite limited, while Europe has been investigated for years, with the majority of aurelia species isolated from here. Recently, new stands of species of the P. aurelia complex were found in southern Europe (Malta, Bulgaria, Cyprus) and in the Czech Republic (P. primaurelia, P. triaurelia, P. octaurelia). In Africa (Republic of South Africa), new stands of P. primaurelia, P. triaurelia, and P. octaurelia were found. Interestingly, the rare species P. triaurelia, and P. octaurelia were found to co-occur both in South Africa (SA 13) and the Czech Republic (CKV 8). Newly established strains were identified to species by crossing with the test strains (the reference strains for the particular species).	2014	10.3409/fb62_4.361
Diaz-Munoz, SL; Koskella, B	Bacteria-Phage Interactions in Natural Environments	ADVANCES IN APPLIED MICROBIOLOGY, VOL 89	Phages are considered the most abundant and diverse biological entities on Earth and are notable not only for their sheer abundance, but also for their influence on bacterial hosts. In nature, bacteria phage relationships are complex and have far-reaching consequences beyond particular pairwise interactions, influencing everything from bacterial virulence to eukaryotic fitness to the carbon cycle. In this review, we examine bacteria and phage distributions in nature first by highlighting biogeographic patterns and nonhost environmental influences on phage distribution, then by considering the ways in which phages and bacteria interact, emphasizing phage life cycles, bacterial responses to phage infection, and the complex patterns of phage host specificity. Finally, we discuss phage impacts on bacterial abundance, genetics, and physiology, and further aim to clarify distinctions between current theoretical models and point out areas in need of future research.	2014	10.1016/B978-0-12-800259-9.00004-4
Xiao, R; Chen, BZ; Liu, YJ; Wang, CP; Gu, JD; Feng, HY; Du, GZ; Ma, XJ	Higher Abundance of Ammonia Oxidizing Archaea than Ammonia Oxidizing Bacteria and Their Communities in Tibetan Alpine Meadow Soils under Long-term Nitrogen Fertilization	GEOMICROBIOLOGY JOURNAL	Increasing usage of nitrogen fertilizer for food production has resulted in severely environmental problems of nutrients enrichment. This study aimed to examine the response of ammonia-oxidizing bacteria (AOB) and ammonia-oxidizing archaea (AOA) to a long-term nitrogen fertilization in Tibetan alpine meadow. The abundance and composition of both AOB and AOA were assessed using quantitative real-time PCR, cloning and sequencing techniques based on amoA gene under different fertilization gradient (0, 30, 60, 90, and 120g m(-2) year(-1)). Our results showed that, abundances of AOA amoA genes (ranging from 1.48 x 10(9) to 2.00 x 10(9) copies per gram of dry soil) were significantly higher than those of AOB amoA genes (1.25 x 10(7) to 2.62 x 10(8) copies per gram of dry soil) under fertilization scenario. The abundance of AOB amoA genes increased with increasing nitrogen fertilization, whereas fertilization had little effect on AOA abundance. Sequences of clone libraries of the different treatments revealed that AOB communities were dominated by representatives of Cluster 4, constituting 48.94-64.44% in each clone library. Sequences of Clusters 9, 1 and 2 were prevalent in soils under higher fertilization. All archaeal amoA sequences recovered were affiliated with the soil/sediment clade and marine sediment clade, and no significant difference was observed on the community structure among different fertilization treatments. Variations in the AOB community structure and abundance were linked to ammonium-N and soil pH induced by different fertilization treatments. These results showed that the abundance and structure of the AOB community respond to the fertilization gradient, not AOA.	2014	10.1080/01490451.2013.875298
Lu, XM; Lu, PL; Lu, PZ; Zhang, H	Effects of river sediment addition to the beach microbial communities	TOXICOLOGICAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL CHEMISTRY	During the processes of claiming land from the sea, river sediments are used to fill and transform the sea area along the margin of islands and lands into new lands. These activities would probably affect microbial ecosystems of the beach sediment. However, little is known about these effects. In this study, a simulation test was conducted to evaluate these effects. Pyrosequencing technique was employed to assess the effects of river sediment addition to the beach bacterial communities. The used river sediments were collected from different rivers. The results indicated that river sediment addition greatly impacted microbial ecosystems of the beach and caused a clear shift in the beach bacterial community composition. These processes remarkably increased toxic metals and decreased the bacterial diversity in the beach sediment, mainly including the phyla of Bacteroidetes, Cyanobacteria, Proteobacteria, and Spirochaetes. River sediment addition caused an increase in potentially pathogenic bacterial genera of the beach sediment. Bacterial phylotype richness in the beach without river sediment addition was higher than that in the beach with river sediment input. There were significant differences in bacterial communities between beach sediments with and without river sediment addition, and the most dominant classes were Gammaproteobacteria and Flavobacteria.	2014	10.1080/02772248.2014.907410
Skaloud, P; Skaloudova, M; Prochazkova, A; Nemcova, Y	Morphological delineation and distribution patterns of four newly described species within the Synura petersenii species complex (Chrysophyceae, Stramenopiles)	EUROPEAN JOURNAL OF PHYCOLOGY	The Synura petersenii species complex represents a common, cosmopolitan and highly diverse taxon of autotrophic freshwater flagellates. In this paper, we describe and characterize four new species (S. borealis, S. heteropora, S. hibernica and S. laticarina) that have been identified during our extensive sampling of freshwater habitats in 15 European countries. Morphometric analyses of siliceous scales led to the significant phenotypic differentiation of all four newly described species, and their separation from other related species of the S. petersenii complex. Two of these newly described species (S. hibernica and S. borealis) can be clearly distinguished by characteristic large colonies consisting of elongated, lanceolate-shaped cells. Development of strongly elongated, narrow cells in S. hibernica could be explained by the adaptation of this species to oligotrophic conditions. Though morphologically distinct, S. borealis possesses an exceptionally high degree of genetic diversity, possibly indicating recent speciation and evolutionary diversification within this taxon. Three of the four newly described species exhibit restricted biogeographic distribution. The evolutionarily related S. borealis and S. laticarina occur only in Northern Europe, and seem to be adapted to colder areas. The most remarkable distribution pattern was observed for S. hibernica, which has a geographic distribution that is restricted to western Ireland.	2014	10.1080/09670262.2014.905710
Hathaway, JJM; Garcia, MG; Balasch, MM; Spilde, MN; Stone, FD; Dapkevicius, MDNE; Amorim, IR; Gabriel, R; Borges, PAV; Northup, DE	Comparison of Bacterial Diversity in Azorean and Hawaiian Lava Cave Microbial Mats	GEOMICROBIOLOGY JOURNAL	Worldwide, lava caves host colorful microbial mats. However, little is known about the diversity of these microorganisms, or what role they may play in the subsurface ecosystem. White and yellow microbial mats were collected from four lava caves each on the Azorean island of Terceira and the Big Island of Hawaii, to compare the bacterial diversity found in lava caves from two widely separated archipelagos in two different oceans at different latitudes. Scanning electron microscopy of mat samples showed striking similarities between Terceira and Hawaiian microbial morphologies. 16S rRNA gene clone libraries were constructed to determine the diversity within these lava caves. Fifteen bacterial phyla were found across the samples, with more Actinobacteria clones in Hawaiian communities and greater numbers of Acidobacteria clones in Terceira communities. Bacterial diversity in the subsurface was correlated with a set of factors. Geographical location was the major contributor to differences in community composition (at the OTU level), together with differences in the amounts of organic carbon, nitrogen and copper available in the lava rock that forms the cave. These results reveal, for the first time, the similarity among the extensive bacterial diversity found in lava caves in two geographically separate locations and contribute to the current debate on the nature of microbial biogeography.	2014	10.1080/01490451.2013.777491
Nouioui, I; Ghodhbane-Gtari, F; Fernandez, MP; Boudabous, A; Normand, P; Gtari, M	Absence of Cospeciation between the Uncultured Frankia Microsymbionts and the Disjunct Actinorhizal Coriaria Species	BIOMED RESEARCH INTERNATIONAL	Coriaria is an actinorhizal plant that forms root nodules in symbiosis with nitrogen-fixing actinobacteria of the genus Frankia. This symbiotic association has drawn interest because of the disjunct geographical distribution of Coriaria in four separate areas of the world and in the context of evolutionary relationships between host plants and their uncultured microsymbionts. The evolution of Frankia-Coriaria symbioses was examined from a phylogenetic viewpoint using multiple genetic markers in both bacteria and host-plant partners. Total DNA extracted from root nodules collected from five species: C. myrtifolia, C. arborea, C. nepalensis, C. japonica, and C. microphylla, growing in the Mediterranean area (Morocco and France), New Zealand, Pakistan, Japan, and Mexico, respectively, was used to amplify glnA gene (glutamine synthetase), dnaA gene (chromosome replication initiator), and the nif DK IGS (intergenic spacer between nifD and nifK genes) in Frankia and the matK gene (chloroplast-encoded maturase K) and the intergenic transcribed spacers (18S rRNA-ITS1-5.8S rRNA-ITS2-28S rRNA) in Coriaria species. Phylogenetic reconstruction indicated that the radiations of Frankia strains and Coriaria species are not congruent. The lack of cospeciation between the two symbiotic partners may be explained by host shift at high taxonomic rank together with wind dispersal and/or survival in nonhost rhizosphere.	2014	10.1155/2014/924235
Ni, JJ; Yan, QY; Yu, YH; Zhang, TL	Fish gut microecosystem: a model for detecting spatial pattern of microorganisms	CHINESE JOURNAL OF OCEANOLOGY AND LIMNOLOGY	The spatial distribution pattern of organisms is a basic issue in understanding the mechanisms of community assembly. Although the spatial distributions of animals and plants have been well studied, those of microorganisms are still being debated. In this study, we used a fish gut microecosystem to detect the spatial pattern of microbes, because it can provide a relatively unified and stable environment. Results suggest that the turnover of intestinal bacterial assemblages showed a weak but highly significant negative correlation between similarity and distances in the microbial community, in respect of both grass carp intestinal loci distances and the geographical distance between fish sampling sites. Our results also suggest that intestinal bacterial assemblages responded to differences within the external environment and within different parts of the fish themselves. These results show that some, or possibly all, microbes are restricted in their distribution and that environmental factors are also important influences on the structure of intestinal bacterial assemblages. The fish gut microecosystem is useful in promoting study of the spatial distribution patterns of microorganisms.	2014	10.1007/s00343-014-3072-z
Dinnis, RE; Seelig, F; Bormane, A; Donaghy, M; Vollmer, SA; Feil, EJ; Kurtenbach, K; Margos, G	Multilocus sequence typing using mitochondrial genes (mtMLST) reveals geographic population structure of Ixodes ricinus ticks	TICKS AND TICK-BORNE DISEASES	The hard tick Ixodes ricinus is the principal vector of Lyme borreliosis (LB) group spirochaetes in Europe, but it also transmits a large number of other microbial pathogens that are of importance to animal and human health. Here, we characterise geographically distinct populations of this important ectoparasite based on multilocus sequence typing (MLST) of multiple mitochondrial (mt) genes (mtMLST). Internal fragments of approximately 500 bp were amplified and sequenced for 6 protein-encoding and ribosomal genes (atp6, coi, coii, coiii, cytB, and 12s). The samples analysed consisted of 506 questing nymphs collected in Britain and Latvia in 2006-2008 and in Latvia in 2002. Although little genetic structure has previously been observed in I. ricinus ticks among Europe, our data could clearly differentiate these 2 populations. Here, we argue that this novel scheme provides additional phylogenetic resolution which is important for understanding the genetic and geographic structure of I. ricinus populations. This in turn will benefit monitoring and management of tick-borne diseases. (C) 2013 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.	2014	10.1016/j.ttbdis.2013.10.001
Grattepanche, JD; Santoferrara, LF; Andrade, J; Oliverio, AM; McManus, GB; Katz, LA	Distribution and diversity of oligotrich and choreotrich ciliates assessed by morphology and DGGE in temperate coastal waters	AQUATIC MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	We assessed the diversity of coastal planktonic ciliates (Oligotrichia and Choreotrichia, Class: Spirotrichea) in Fishers Island Sound off the coast of Connecticut, USA using a combination of denaturant gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) and morphological analyses. To test the hypothesis that ciliate communities followed water masses, we sampled 3 times at a surface drifter (i.e. floating buoy) and twice at intervening times from points 1 km away. By repeating both PCRs and gel electrophoresis under varying conditions, we confirmed that DGGE is an appropriate tool to capture the ciliate community composition, based on the high repeatability of samples. The 2 methods used for assessing ciliate community structure showed similar levels of diversity for tintinnids. However, there was a mismatch in diversity estimates for the aloricate ciliates, especially for the oligotrichs where the estimated diversity was greater by DGGE than by microscopy. This may be attributable to biases in the DGGE (e.g. primer or gene copy number issues) and/or misidentification by morphology. However, the pattern of community structure assessed by cluster analyses is similar for both microscopy and DGGE, suggesting that the mismatch between these methods does not introduce bias in biogeographical analysis. Analyses of both DGGE haplotypes and microscopically observed morphospecies revealed that the ciliate communities were not static within the water mass. Community structure and abundance patterns varied with salinity and currents. These changes could be due to mixing with adjacent estuarine and coastal assemblages, ciliate behavior, and/or other factors that cause assemblages to be dynamic over short (i.e. ultradian) periods.	2014	10.3354/ame01675
Evans, SE; Wallenstein, MD; Burke, IC	Is bacterial moisture niche a good predictor of shifts in community composition under long-term drought?	ECOLOGY	Both biogeographical and rainfall manipulation studies show that soil water content can be a strong driver of microbial community composition. However, we do not yet know if these patterns emerge because certain bacterial taxa are better able to survive at dry soil moisture regimes or if they are due to other drought-sensitive ecosystem properties indirectly affecting microbial community composition. In this study, we evaluated (1) whether bacterial community composition changed under an 11-year drought manipulation and (2) whether shifts under drought could be explained by variation in the moisture sensitivity of growth among bacterial taxa (moisture niche partitioning). Using 454 pyrosequencing of 16S rRNA, we observed shifts in bacterial community composition under drought, coincident with changes in other soil properties. We wet-up dry soils from drought plots to five moisture levels, and measured respiration and the composition of actively growing communities using bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) labeling of DNA. The field drought experiment affected the composition of the active community when incubated at different moisture levels in the laboratory, as well as short-term (36-hour) respiration rates. Independent of history, bacterial communities also displayed strong niche partitioning across the wet-up moisture gradient. Although this indicates that moisture has the potential to drive bacterial community composition under long-term drought, species distributions predicted by response to moisture did not reflect the community composition of plots that were subjected to long-term drought. Bacterial community structure was likely more strongly driven by other environmental factors that changed under long-term drought, or not shaped by response to water level upon wet-up. The approach that we present here for linking niches to community composition could be adapted for other environmental variables to aid in predicting microbial species distributions and community responses to environmental change.	2014	10.1890/13-0500.1
Singh, D; Lee-Cruz, L; Kim, WS; Kerfahi, D; Chun, JH; Adams, JM	Strong elevational trends in soil bacterial community composition on Mt. Ha lla, South Korea	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	Elevational trends in the ecology of macroorganisms have been studied extensively; by contrast very little is known of such trends in microbial diversity. Previous studies on soil bacteria have found either a diversity decline, a peak in mid altitudes, or no trend with increasing elevation. Here we studied bacterial diversity and community composition in relation to elevation on Mt. Halla, Jeju Island, South Korea, a massive shield volcano. Samples were taken along two transects, from 100 m.a.s.l. to the summit at 1950 m.a.s.l., at elevational intervals of 200 m. PCR-amplified soil DNA for the bacterial 16S rRNA gene targeting V1 to V3 region was 454-pyrosequenced, and taxonomically classified against EzTaxon-e database. Elevation was the best predictor of variation in bacterial community composition along the two transects, even when considering other soil parameters. Elevation was itself highly correlated with mean annual temperature (MAT) and mean annual precipitation (MAP), suggesting that soil bacterial community composition On Mt. Haifa is more strongly affected by climate than by geochemical or soil textural factors. The two transects showed certain consistent differences in bacterial phyla composition, with one transect having significantly higher abundance of Planctomycetes and Gemmatimonadetes than the other. Certain other phyla (e.g. Acidobacteria) also showed striking trends in abundance with elevation, but the trends differed between the two transects. Bacterial diversity and richness were also most strongly correlated with elevation, MAT and MAP, although soil pH explained a part of the variation. Moreover, vegetation cover type, irrespective of elevation, had an effect on soil bacterial diversity and richness. We found a dip in diversity at lower mid elevations (700-1300 m) in both transects; a trend which has not been found before. Our results, when compared with other studies, emphasize that no simple rule can be applied to mountain systems in general, but that climate itself is a major influence on community composition. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2014	10.1016/j.soilbio.2013.09.027
Graham, EB; Wieder, WR; Leff, JW; Weintraub, SR; Townsend, AR; Cleveland, CC; Philippot, L; Nemergut, DR	Do we need to understand microbial communities to predict ecosystem function? A comparison of statistical models of nitrogen cycling processes	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	Despite the central role of microorganisms in biogeochemistry, process models rarely explicitly account for variation in communities. Here, we use statistical models to address a fundamental question in ecosystem ecology: do we need to better understand microbial communities to accurately predict ecosystem function? Nitrogen (N) cycle process rates and associated gene abundances were measured in tropical rainforest soil samples collected in May (early wet season) and October (late wet season). We used stepwise linear regressions to examine the explanatory power of edaphic factors and functional gene relative abundances alone and in combination for N-cycle processes, using both our full dataset and seasonal subsets of the data. In our full dataset, no models using gene abundance data explained more variation in process rates than models based on edaphic factors alone, and models that contained both edaphic factors and community data did not explain significantly more variation in process rates than edaphic factor models. However, when seasonal datasets were examined separately, microbial predictors enhanced the explanatory power of edaphic predictors on dissimilatory nitrate reduction to ammonium and N2O efflux rates during October. Because there was little variation in the explanatory power of microbial predictors alone between seasonal datasets, our results suggest that environmental factors we did not measure may be more important in structuring communities and regulating processes in October than in May. Thus, temporal dynamics are key to understanding the relationships between edaphic factors, microbial communities and ecosystem function in this system. The simple statistical method presented here can accommodate a variety of data types and should help prioritize what forms of data may be most useful in ecosystem model development. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2014	10.1016/j.soilbio.2013.08.023
Luke, C; Frenzel, P; Ho, A; Fiantis, D; Schad, P; Schneider, B; Schwark, L; Utami, SR	Macroecology of methane-oxidizing bacteria: the beta-diversity of pmoA genotypes in tropical and subtropical rice paddies	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Studies addressing microbial biogeography have increased during the past decade, but research on microbial distribution patterns is still in its infancies, and many aspects are only poorly understood. Here, we compared the methanotroph community in paddy soils sampled in Indonesia, Vietnam, China and Italy, focusing on the distance-decay relationship. We used the pmoA gene as marker for methanotroph diversity in terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism, microarray and pyrosequencing approaches. We could observe a significant increase of -diversity with geographical distance across continents (12000km). Measured environmental parameters explained only a small amount of data variation, and we found no evidence for dispersal limitation. Thus, we propose historical contingencies being responsible for the observed patterns. Furthermore, we performed an in-depth analysis of type II methanotroph pmoA distribution at the sequence level. We used ordination analysis to project sequence dissimilarities into a three-dimensional space (multidimensional scaling). The ordination suggests that type II methanotrophs in paddy fields can be divided into five major groups. However, these groups were found to be distributed in all soils independent of the geographic origin. By including tropical field sites (Indonesia and Vietnam) into the analysis, we further observed the first paddy fields harbouring a methanotroph community depleted in type II methanotrophs.	2014	10.1111/1462-2920.12190
Dao, TH	Landscape-scale geographic variations in microbial biomass and enzyme-labile phosphorus in manure-amended Hapludults	BIOLOGY AND FERTILITY OF SOILS	Long-term nutrient management practices have lasting effects on the geographic distribution of soil microorganisms, loci of enhanced activity, and non-mobile nutrients such as phosphorus (P) to ultimately influence nutrient use efficiency by crops and edge-of-field losses. We determined the distribution of soil microbial biomass, phosphomonoesterases activity, and P forms in a 10-ha no-till field that received annual additions of dairy manure at 0, 15, and 30 kg P ha(-1) at the field scale for 16 consecutive years. The spatial structure of soil microbial indices and extractable P fractions were characterized based on their semivariance distributions for each manure treatment. The buildup in soil P occurred, although replacement was done at a crop removal rate. Manure additions resulted in overall mean increases in total labile P of 73 % and 156 % and alterations in the soil microbial ecosystem that depended on manure inorganic-to-enzyme-labile P composition in soils treated with 15 and 30 kg P ha(-1), respectively. Distinct clusters of phosphate- and enzyme-labile organic P were observed within manure treatments, where accumulation of the latter forms was associated with high soil microbial biomass C and reduced acid phosphomonoesterase activity. The geographic variability highlighted the critical need for improving methods of field-scale application of manure and non-mobile nutrients. In addition, current soil testing methods that depend upon composite representative samples for estimating microbiological parameters linked to nutrient turnover and P requirements for optimal crop production should be modified to include site-specificity in sampling and interpretation approaches.	2014	10.1007/s00374-013-0844-0
Creamer, RE; Schulte, RPO; Stone, D; Gal, A; Krogh, PH; Lo Papa, G; Murray, PJ; Peres, G; Foerster, B; Rutgers, M; Sousa, JP; Winding, A	Measuring basal soil respiration across Europe: Do incubation temperature and incubation period matter?	ECOLOGICAL INDICATORS	The European Commission recognises the essential role of soil biology in soil functioning and delivery of ecosystem services, but information is currently lacking evaluate of how these vary across soil and land-use types at a European scale. This study evaluated the measurement of the initial rate of soil basal respiration (BR) as a potential biological indicator of ecosystem service provision. The purpose of this study was to test ISO 16072:2002 (Soil Quality: Laboratory methods for the determining of microbial soil respiration). In the literature a range of pre-incubation temperatures (pre-inc) and experimental incubation temperatures (exp-inc) have been applied when using the ISO method for the establishment of basal respiration. This study evaluated whether the range of temperatures applied during pre- and exp- incubation had a significant effect on the rate of respiration determined when following the protocol established in ISO 16072:2002. The evaluation was carried out on a pedo-climatic gradient spanning ten countries across Europe and covering four biogeographical regions. Three sites were sampled in each country providing a range of soil and land-use parameters. Our results suggest that experimental incubation temperatures of 20 degrees C or above should be used in the application of the methodology ISO 16072:2002 (incubation at 15 degrees C resulted in erratic variation between replicates). However, pre-incubation temperature did not affect the soil basal respiration rate, when following the standard recommendations. The time interval with the best prediction of the initial rate of basal respiration was 6 h. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2014	10.1016/j.ecolind.2013.08.015
Szekely, AJ; Langenheder, S	The importance of species sorting differs between habitat generalists and specialists in bacterial communities	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Recent studies have shown that the spatial turnover of bacterial communities, that is, beta-diversity, is determined by a combination of different assembly mechanisms, such as species sorting, that is, environmental filtering, and dispersal-related mechanisms. However, it is currently unclear to what extent the importance of the different mechanisms depends on community traits. Here, we implemented a study using a rock pool metacommunity to test whether habitat specialization of bacterial taxa and groups or their phylogenetic identity influenced by which mechanisms communities were assembled. In general, our results show that species sorting was the most important assembly mechanism. However, we found that a larger fraction of the variation in bacterial community composition between pools could be explained by environmental factors in case of habitat generalists, that is, taxa that were widespread and abundant in the metacommunity, compared with habitat specialists, that is, taxa that had a more restricted distribution range and tended to be rare. Differences in assembly mechanisms were observed between different major phyla and classes. However, also here, a larger fraction of the variation in community composition among pools could be explained for taxonomic groups that contained on average more habitat generalists. In summary, our results show that species sorting is stronger for the most common taxa, indicating that beta-diversity along environmental gradients can be adequately described without considering rare taxa.	2014	10.1111/1574-6941.12195
Xu, HJ; Li, S; Su, JQ; Nie, SA; Gibson, V; Li, H; Zhu, YG	Does urbanization shape bacterial community composition in urban park soils? A case study in 16 representative Chinese cities based on the pyrosequencing method	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Although the geographical distribution patterns of microbes have been studied for years, few studies have focused on urban soils. Urbanization may have detrimental effects on the soil ecosystem through pollution discharge and changes in urban climate. It is unclear whether urbanization-related factors have any effect on soil bacterial communities. Therefore we investigated geographical patterns of soil microbial communities in parks in 16 representative Chinese cities. The microbial communities in these 95 soil samples were revealed by 454-pyrosequencing. There were 574442 effective sequences among the total of 980019 16S rRNA gene sequences generated, showing the diversity of the microbial communities. Proteobacteria, Actinobacteria, Acidobacteria, Planctomycetes, Chloroflexi and Bacteroidetes were found to be the six dominant phyla in all samples. Canonical correspondence analysis showed that pH, followed by annual average precipitation, annual average temperature, annual average relative humidity and city sunshine hours, Mn and Mg were the factors most highly correlated with the bacterial community variance. Urbanization did have an effect on bacterial community composition of urban park soils but it contributed less to the total variance compared with geographical locations and soil properties, which explained 6.19% and 16.78% of the variance, respectively.	2014	10.1111/1574-6941.12215
Ravel, A; Marivaux, L; Qi, T; Wang, YQ; Beard, KC	New chiropterans from the middle Eocene of Shanghuang (Jiangsu Province, Coastal China): new insight into the dawn horseshoe bats (Rhinolophidae) in Asia	ZOOLOGICA SCRIPTA	Until recently, the fossil record of Paleogene bats in Asia primarily included extinct families (i.e. Eochiroptera) from the early Eocene of Vastan in India and from the middle-late Eocene of the Liguanqiao and Yuanqu basins in central China. Here, we describe a new fauna of Chiroptera from the middle Eocene Shanghuang fissure fillings of China. The fauna includes abundant material referred to a new rhinolophid (Protorhinolophus shanghuangensis gen. and sp. n.), one specimen of a possible rhinopomatid and several indeterminate rhinolophoids. This new bat assemblage constitutes the earliest record of extant families of microbats in Asia. Because it lacks representatives of Eochiroptera, this Shanghuang bat fauna indicates significant turnover in Asian bat communities. The dental pattern of P.shanghuangensis shows a mosaic of primitive and derived features (Eochiroptera vs Rhinolophidae dental characteristics), suggesting that this taxon occupies a basal position among the Rhinolophidae. Rhinolophids were already well diversified at the end of the late Eocene in Europe. Interestingly, many dental characteristics of Protorhinolophus are also found in a primitive rhinolophoid taxon, Vaylatsia, from the middle Eocene to late Oligocene of Europe, supporting a close relationship between these taxa. These affinities testify to the widespread Eurasian distribution of rhinolophoids during the Eocene and are consistent with a westward dispersal of the group from eastern Asia to Europe owing to the greater antiquity of Protorhinolophus.	2014	10.1111/zsc.12027
Labonte, JM; Suttle, CA	Metagenomic and whole-genome analysis reveals new lineages of gokushoviruses and biogeographic separation in the sea	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Much remains to be learned about single-stranded (ss) DNA viruses in natural systems, and the evolutionary relationships among them. One of the eight recognized families of ssDNA viruses is the Microviridae, a group of viruses infecting bacteria. In this study we used metagenomic analysis, genome assembly, and amplicon sequencing of purified ssDNA to show that bacteriophages belonging to the subfamily Gokushovirinae within the Microviridae are genetically diverse and widespread members of marine microbial communities. Metagenomic analysis of coastal samples from the Gulf of Mexico (GOM) and British Columbia, Canada, revealed numerous sequences belonging to gokushoviruses and allowed the assembly of five putative genomes with an organization similar to chlamydiamicroviruses. Fragment recruitment to these genomes from different metagenomic data sets is consistent with gokushovirus genotypes being restricted to specific oceanic regions. Conservation among the assembled genomes allowed the design of degenerate primers that target an 800 bp fragment from the gene encoding the major capsid protein. Sequences could be amplified from coastal temperate and subtropical waters, but not from samples collected from the Arctic Ocean, or freshwater lakes. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that most sequences were distantly related to those from cultured representatives. Moreover, the sequences fell into at least seven distinct evolutionary groups, most of which were represented by one of the assembled metagenomes. Our results greatly expand the known sequence space for gokushoviruses, and reveal biogeographic separation and new evolutionary lineages of gokushoviruses in the oceans.	2013	10.3389/fmicb.2013.00404
Kowalczuk, P; Tilstone, GH; Zablocka, M; Rottgers, R; Thomas, R	Composition of dissolved organic matter along an Atlantic Meridional Transect from fluorescence spectroscopy and Parallel Factor Analysis	MARINE CHEMISTRY	Absorption spectra and induced fluorescence excitation emission matrices of colored dissolved organic matter were measured in water samples collected along the Atlantic Meridional Transect in different bio-geographic provinces of the Atlantic Ocean from October to November 2010. The highest values of CDOM absorption coefficient at 305 nm (a(CDOM)(305)), were recorded at the continental margins of the English Channel and Patagonian Shelf. The lowest values of a(CDOM)(305) were observed in the mixed layer of both North and South Atlantic subtropical oligotrophic gyres. The DOM composition was assessed using fluorescence spectroscopy, Excitation Emission Matrix spectra (EEMs) and the Parallel Factor Analysis (PARAFAC) model in addition to spectral indices calculated from CDOM absorption spectrum and EEMs. Six different components were identified in the EEMs by PARAFAC: Two components were similar to the humic-like fraction of DOM, associated with basin scale microbial mineralization processes. These components represent allochthonous DOM in the biogeographic provinces studied. One component of marine humic-like material of autochthonous origin was associated with DOM production from marine phytoplankton. Three components were associated with protein-like DOM. Two protein-like components had the spectral characteristics of pure tryptophan and tyrosine. There was a significant difference in DOM composition both between bio-geographical provinces and above and below the mixed layer. In the mixed layer in all provinces, except the waters of the Western European Shelf, the DOM was dominated by protein-like components. At the Western European Shelf, it was dominated by humic-like components. Fluorescence intensities of humic-like components were high at the Patagonian Shelf, but were up to 40% lower compared to northern hemisphere shelf waters. Humic-like components made a significant contribution to the DOM composition of the upper mesopelagic layer in all provinces, with the highest values at the Equatorial Upwelling Zone. There was a significant inverse relationship between humic-like components and salinity and temperature and a positive relationship with Apparent Oxygen Utilization. The humification index (HIX) was linearly correlated with the intensity of the humic-like DOM components. These trends suggest that the humic-like components are in dynamic equilibrium between likely microbial production in the deep ocean and photochemical degradation in the mixed layer. (C) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2013	10.1016/j.marchem.2013.10.004
Lebret, K; Kritzberg, ES; Rengefors, K	Population Genetic Structure of a Microalgal Species under Expansion	PLOS ONE	Biological invasions often cause major perturbations in the environment and are well studied among macroorganisms. Less is known about invasion by free-living microbes. Gonyostomum semen (Raphidophyceae) is a freshwater phytoplankton species that has increased in abundance in Northern Europe since the 1980s and has expanded its habitat range. In this study, we aimed to determine the genetic population structure of G. semen in Northern Europe and to what extent it reflects the species recent expansion. We sampled lakes from 12 locations (11 lakes) in Norway, Sweden and Finland. Multiple strains from each location were genotyped using Amplified Fragment Length Polymorphism (AFLP). We found low differentiation between locations, and low gene diversity within each location. Moreover, there was an absence of genetic isolation with distance (Mantel test, p = 0.50). According to a Bayesian clustering method all the isolates belonged to the same genetic population. Together our data suggest the presence of one metapopulation and an overall low diversity, which is coherent with a recent expansion of G. semen.	2013	10.1371/journal.pone.0082510
Yan, ML; Pamp, SJ; Fukuyama, J; Hwang, PH; Cho, DY; Holmes, S; Relman, DA	Nasal Microenvironments and Interspecific Interactions Influence Nasal Microbiota Complexity and S-aureus Carriage	CELL HOST & MICROBE	The indigenous microbiota of the nasal cavity plays important roles in human health and disease. Patterns of spatial variation in microbiota composition may help explain Staphylococcus aureus colonization and reveal interspecies and species-host interactions. To assess the biogeography of the nasal microbiota, we sampled healthy subjects, representing both S. aureus carriers and noncarriers at three nasal sites (anterior naris, middle meatus, and sphenoethmoidal recess). Phylogenetic compositional and sparse linear discriminant analyses revealed communities that differed according to site epithelium type and S. aureus culture-based carriage status. Corynebacterium accolens and C. pseudodiphtheriticum were identified as the most important microbial community determinants of S. aureus carriage, and competitive interactions were only evident at sites with ciliated pseudostratified columnar epithelium. In vitro cocultivation experiments provided supporting evidence of interactions among these species. These results highlight spatial variation in nasal microbial communities and differences in community composition between S. aureus carriers and noncarriers.	2013	10.1016/j.chom.2013.11.005
Dabdoub, SM; Tsigarida, AA; Kumar, PS	Patient-specific Analysis of Periodontal and Peri-implant Microbiomes	JOURNAL OF DENTAL RESEARCH	Periodontally involved teeth have been implicated as microbial reservoirs in the etiology of peri-implant diseases. Therefore, the purpose of this investigation was to use a deep-sequencing approach to identify the degree of congruence between adjacent peri-implant and periodontal microbiomes in states of health and disease. Subgingival and peri-implant biofilm samples were collected from 81 partially edentulous individuals with periodontal and peri-implant health and disease. Bacterial DNA was isolated, and the 16S rRNA gene was amplified and sequenced by pyrotag sequencing. Chimera-depleted sequences were compared against a locally hosted curated database for bacterial identification. Statistical significance was determined by paired Students t tests between tooth-implant pairs. The 1.9 million sequences identified represented 523 species. Sixty percent of individuals shared less than 50% of all species between their periodontal and peri-implant biofilms, and 85% of individuals shared less than 8% of abundant species between tooth and implant. Additionally, the periodontal microbiome demonstrated significantly higher diversity than the implant, and distinct bacterial lineages were associated with health and disease in each ecosystem. Analysis of our data suggests that simple geographic proximity is not a sufficient determinant of colonization of topographically distinct niches, and that the peri-implant and periodontal microbiomes represent microbiologically distinct ecosystems.	2013	10.1177/0022034513504950
Falk, MW; Seshan, H; Dosoretz, C; Wuertz, S	Partial bioaugmentation to remove 3-chloroaniline slows bacterial species turnover rate in bioreactors	WATER RESEARCH	Bioaugmentation is a potentially powerful tool to direct community structure and metabolic capacities in bioreactors. Yet the outcome of bioaugmentation studies is usually unpredictable and effects on microbial community dynamics are poorly understood. We asked the question whether bioaugmentation could prevent a diversity shift induced by a model toxin, 3-chloroaniline (3-CA), regardless of whether 3-CA was degraded. Four replicate membrane bioreactors (MBRs) operating in parallel were amended with Pseudomonas putida UWC3 (pWDL7::rfp), a strain that carries the upper pathway genes necessary for partial degradation of 3-CA on its plasmid. Two MBAs served as controls and two MBRs were exposed to 3-CA for 71 days. Despite the selective pressure imposed by 3-CA, there was little or no 3-CA removal and neither the 16S rRNA gene of the augmented strain UWC3 nor the plasmid pWDL7::rfp proliferated in any of the reactors. Yet both host strain and plasmid were maintained at reduced levels (similar to 10(4) host strain cells ml(-1)) in all reactors compared to the initial inoculum (similar to 10(7) cells ml(-1); 1% of active cells). Additionally, the microbial community dynamics were evaluated for each MBR via terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) analysis (n = 15 per reactor) that targeted a portion of the 16S rRNA gene. Analysis comprised of a suite of multivariate statistics coupled with a theoretical microbial ecological approach, Island Biogeography, using a bacterial species time relationship (STR), within each MBR. Control MBRs had a wider range in w values than the treatment MBRs, which is attributed to the lack of a toxin selecting for biota that can withstand its toxic nature. Bioaugmentation alone strongly slowed the bacterial species turnover rate (as revealed by very low w scaling components), compared to non-bioaugmented reactors from a previous study, but did not protect the microbial community from a diversity shift caused by the toxin. Nonmetric multidimensional scaling (NMDS) analysis revealed that treatment MBRs diverged away from the control MBRs after the first 11 days, whereas control MBRs remained clustered. Individual reactors were analyzed by multi-response permutation procedures (MRPP) and a significant difference was found between each control MBR and the treatment MBRs. The study suggests that newly introduced strains can gain a foothold in established microbial communities even at low cell concentrations (about 1% of introduced concentration within the first week) regardless of selective pressure, whereas community dynamics are more affected by the presence of a selector toxin. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2013	10.1016/j.watres.2013.08.040
Zhao, LL; Lu, M; Niu, HT; Fang, GF; Zhang, S; Sun, JH	A native fungal symbiont facilitates the prevalence and development of an invasive pathogen-native vector symbiosis	ECOLOGY	Invasive pathogen-insect symbioses have been extensively studied in many different ecological niches. Whether the damage of symbioses in different introduced regions might be influenced by other microorganisms has, however, received little attention. Eight years of field data showed that the varied levels of the nematode and beetle populations and infested trees of the invasive Bursaphelenchus xylophilus-Monochamus alternatus symbiosis were correlated with patterns in the isolation frequencies of ophiostomatoid fungi at six sites, while the laboratory experiments showed that the nematode produced greater numbers of offspring with a female-biased sex ratio and developed faster in the presence of one native symbiotic ophiostomatoid fungus, Sporothrix sp. 1. Diacetone alcohol (DAA) from xylem inoculated with Sporothrix sp. 1 induced B. xylophilus to produce greater numbers of offspring. Its presence also significantly increased the growth and survival rate of M. alternatus, and possibly explains the prevalence of the nematode-vector symbiosis when Sporothrix sp. 1 was dominant in the fungal communities. Studying the means by which multispecies interactions contributed to biogeographical dynamics allowed us to better understand the varied levels of damage caused by biological invasion across the invaded range.	2013	10.1890/12-2229.1
Tedersoo, L; Smith, ME	Lineages of ectomycorrhizal fungi revisited: Foraging strategies and novel lineages revealed by sequences from belowground	FUNGAL BIOLOGY REVIEWS	In the fungal kingdom, the ectomycorrhizal (EcM) symbiosis has evolved independently in multiple groups that are referred to as lineages. A growing number of molecular studies in the fields of mycology, ecology, soil science, and microbiology generate vast amounts of sequence data from fungi in their natural habitats, particularly from soil and roots. However, as the number and diversity of sequences has increased, it has become increasingly difficult to accurately identify the fungal species in these samples and to determine their trophic modes. In particular, there has been significant controversy regarding which fungal groups form ectomycorrhizas, the morphological exploration types that these fungi form on roots, and the ecological strategies that they use to obtain nutrients. To address this problem, we have synthesized the phylogenetic and taxonomic breadth of EcM fungi by using the wealth of accumulated sequence data. We also compile available information about exploration types of 143 genera of EcM fungi (including 67 new reports) that can be tentatively used to help infer the ecological strategies of different fungal groups. Phylogenetic analyses of ribosomal DNA ITS and LSU sequences enabled us to recognize 20 novel lineages of EcM fungi. Most of these are rare and have a limited distribution. Five new lineages occur exclusively in tropical and subtropical habitats. Altogether 46 fungal genera were added to the list of EcM fungal taxa and we anticipate that this number will continue to grow rapidly as taxonomic works segregate species-rich genera into smaller, monophyletic units. Three genera were removed from the list of EcM groups due to refined taxonomic and phylogenetic information. In all, we suggest that EcM symbiosis has arisen independently in 78-82 fungal lineages that comprise 251-256 genera. The EcM fungal diversity of tropical and southern temperate ecosystems remains significantly understudied and we expect that these regions are most likely to reveal additional EcM taxa. (C) 2013 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2013	10.1016/j.fbr.2013.09.001
Zhong, X; Jacquet, S	Prevalence of Viral Photosynthetic and Capsid Protein Genes from Cyanophages in Two Large and Deep Perialpine Lakes	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Cyanophages are important components of aquatic ecosystems, but their genetic diversity has been little investigated in freshwaters. A yearlong survey was conducted in surface waters of the two largest natural perialpine lakes in France (Lake Annecy and Lake Bourget) to investigate part of this cyanophage diversity through the analysis of both structural (e.g., g20) and functional (e.g., psbA) genes. We found that these cyanophage signature genes were prevalent throughout the year but that the community compositions of g20 cyanomyoviruses were significantly different between the two lakes. In contrast, psbA-containing cyanophages seemed to be more similar between the two ecosystems. We also found that a large proportion of g20 sequences grouped with cyanomyophage isolates. psbA sequences, belonging to phages of Synechococcus spp., were characterized by distinct triplet motifs (with a novel viral triplet motif, EFE). Thus, our results show that cyanophages (i) are a diverse viral community in alpine lakes and (ii) are clearly distinct from some other freshwater and marine environments, suggesting the influence of unique biogeographic factors.	2013	10.1128/AEM.01914-13
Laidler, JR; Shugart, JA; Cady, SL; Bahjat, KS; Stedman, KM	Reversible Inactivation and Desiccation Tolerance of Silicified Viruses	JOURNAL OF VIROLOGY	Long-distance host-independent virus dispersal is poorly understood, especially for viruses found in isolated ecosystems. To demonstrate a possible dispersal mechanism, we show that bacteriophage T4, archaeal virus Sulfolobus spindle-shaped virus Kamchatka, and vaccinia virus are reversibly inactivated by mineralization in silica under conditions similar to volcanic hot springs. In contrast, bacteriophage PRD1 is not silicified. Moreover, silicification provides viruses with remarkable desiccation resistance, which could allow extensive aerial dispersal.	2013	10.1128/JVI.02825-13
Yang, XN; Huang, S; Wu, QH; Zhang, RD; Liu, GL	Diversity and vertical distributions of sediment bacteria in an urban river contaminated by nutrients and heavy metals	FRONTIERS OF ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE & ENGINEERING	The aim of this study was to investigate the benthic bacterial communities in different depths of an urban river sediment accumulated with high concentrations of nutrients and metals. Vertical distributions of bacterial operational taxonomic units (OTUs) and chemical parameters (nutrients: NH (4) (+) , NO (3) (-) , dissolved organic carbon, and acid volatile sulfur; metals: Fe, Zn, and Cu) were characterized in 30 cm sediment cores. The bacterial OTUs were measured using the terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis. Biodiversity indexes and multivariate statistical analyses were used to characterize the spatial distributions of microbial diversity in response to the environmental parameters. Results showed that concentrations of the nutrients and metals in this river sediment were higher than those in similar studies. Furthermore, high microbial richness and diversity appeared in the sediment. The diversity did not vary obviously in the whole sediment profile. The change of the diversity indexes and the affiliations of the OTUs showed that the top layer had different bacterial community structure from deeper layers due to the hydrological disturbance and redox change in the surface sediment. The dominant bacterial OTUs ubiquitously existed in the deeper sediment layers (5-27 cm) corresponding to the distributions of the nutrients and metals. With much higher diversity than the dominant OTUs, the minor bacterial assemblages varied with depths, which might be affected by the sedimentation process and the environmental competition pressure.	2013	10.1007/s11783-013-0569-1
Kleinteich, J; Wood, SA; Puddick, J; Schleheck, D; Kupper, FC; Dietrich, D	Potent toxins in Arctic environments - Presence of saxitoxins and an unusual microcystin variant in Arctic freshwater ecosystems	CHEMICO-BIOLOGICAL INTERACTIONS	Cyanobacteria are the predominant phototrophs in freshwater ecosystems of the polar regions where they commonly form extensive benthic mats. Despite their major biological role in these ecosystems, little attention has been paid to their physiology and biochemistry. An important feature of cyanobacteria from the temperate and tropical regions is the production of a large variety of toxic secondary metabolites. In Antarctica, and more recently in the Arctic, the cyanobacterial toxins microcystin and nodularin (Antarctic only) have been detected in freshwater microbial mats. To date other cyanobacterial toxins have not been reported from these locations. Five Arctic cyanobacterial communities were screened for saxitoxin, another common cyanobacterial toxin, and microcystins using immunological, spectroscopic and molecular methods. Saxitoxin was detected for the first time in cyanobacteria from the Arctic. In addition, an unusual microcystin variant was identified using liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. Gene expression analyses confirmed the analytical findings, whereby parts of the sxt and mcy operon involved in saxitoxin and microcystin synthesis, were detected and sequenced in one and five of the Arctic cyanobacterial samples, respectively. The detection of these compounds in the cryosphere improves the understanding of the biogeography and distribution of toxic cyanobacteria globally. The sequences of sxt and mcy genes provided from this habitat for the first time may help to clarify the evolutionary origin of toxin production in cyanobacteria. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.	2013	10.1016/j.cbi.2013.04.011
Guan, XY; Wang, JF; Zhao, H; Wang, JJ; Luo, XM; Liu, F; Zhao, FQ	Soil bacterial communities shaped by geochemical factors and land use in a less-explored area, Tibetan Plateau	BMC GENOMICS	Background: As the largest low-latitude permafrost region, the Tibetan Plateau (TP) is an important part of the earths terrestrial ecosystem and one of the most vulnerable areas to climate change and human activities. However, to the best of our knowledge, the bacterial communities in TP soils and their roles in biogeochemical cycles remain limited. Results: In this study, we report the bacterial community structure and function as well as their correlation with environmental factors in TP major ecosystems (farmland, alpine meadow and oligosaline lake) by using metagenomic approaches. Compared with other soil samples in various environments, TP soils share a core set of microorganisms with a distinct abundance and composition. Among TP soil samples, the taxonomic and functional composition of bacterial communities among the upper (3-5 cm) and lower (18-20 cm) soils of farmland sites were highly similar, whereas the dissimilarities within alpine meadow samples were significantly greater than among farmland samples. A similar pattern was observed in elements cycles and pathways associated with adaption to environment and land use types. Canonical correlation analysis revealed that the bacterial communities in most of farmland and alpine meadow soil samples were also significantly correlated with geogenic variables. Specifically, the root-nodule bacteria are negatively correlated with the soil moisture and pH, while Thiobacillus associated with sulfur cycles show potential responses to low temperature and intense UV radiation. Conclusions: These findings indicate that the bacterial community structure and functions in TP soils were influenced by both human activities and soil environmental properties, and that the bacterial communities appeared to be more homogenized in the farmland soils compared with pristine alpine meadows.	2013	10.1186/1471-2164-14-820
Kellogg, CA; Piceno, YM; Tom, LM; DeSantis, TZ; Gray, MA; Zawada, DG; Andersen, GL	Comparing Bacterial Community Composition between Healthy and White Plague-Like Disease States in Orbicella annularis Using PhyloChip (TM) G3 Microarrays	PLOS ONE	Coral disease is a global problem. Diseases are typically named or described based on macroscopic changes, but broad signs of coral distress such as tissue loss or discoloration are unlikely to be specific to a particular pathogen. For example there appear to be multiple diseases that manifest the rapid tissue loss that characterizes white plague. PhyloChip (TM) G3 microarrays were used to compare the bacterial community composition of both healthy and white plague-like diseased corals. Samples of lobed star coral (Orbicella annularis, formerly of the genus Montastraea [1]) were collected from two geographically distinct areas, Dry Tortugas National Park and Virgin Islands National Park, to determine if there were biogeographic differences between the diseases. In fact, all diseased samples clustered together, however there was no consistent link to Aurantimonas coralicida, which has been disease as the causative agent of white plague type II. The microarrays revealed a large amount of bacterial heterogeneity within the healthy corals and less diversity in the diseased corals Gram-positive bacterial groups (Actinobacteria, Firmicutes) comprised a greater proportion of the operational taxonomic units (OTUs) unique to healthy samples. Diseased samples were enriched in OTUs from the families Corynebacteriacea, Lachnospiracea, Rhodobacteraceae, and Streptococcaceae. Much previous coral disease work has used clone libraries, which seem to be methodologically biased toward recovery of Gram-negative bacterial sequences and may therefore have missed the importance of Gram-positive groups. The Phylochip (TM) data presented here provide a broader characterization of the bacterial community changes that occur within Orbicella annularis during the shift from a healthy to diseased state.	2013	10.1371/journal.pone.0079801
Kiel, S; Birgel, D; Campbell, KA; Crampton, JS; Schioler, P; Peckmann, J	Cretaceous methane-seep deposits from New Zealand and their fauna	PALAEOGEOGRAPHY PALAEOCLIMATOLOGY PALAEOECOLOGY	Six Cretaceous methane-seep deposits are reported from the Raukumara Peninsula, eastern North Island, New Zealand. Dinoflagellate dating indicates a Late Albian to mid-Cenomanian age for three deposits from Port Awanui, and a mid-Campanian age for two deposits from Waipiro Bay and for one from Owhena Stream. The dominant petrographic fabric of the carbonates is detrital micrite, and the numerous fenestrae and vugs are filled with various cements including two types of non-detrital micrite, and botryoidal and banded fibrous calcites. These petrographic features, in combination with negative delta C-13 values of early diagenetic micrites (as low as -29.2 parts per thousand vs. V-PDB) and C-13-depleted molecular fossils such as the archaeal biomarkers pentamethylicosane (-97 parts per thousand vs. V-PDB) and biphytane (-99 parts per thousand), and the bacterial biomarker anteiso-C-15 fatty acid ( 47 parts per thousand), reveal that sulfate-dependent anaerobic oxidation of methane (AOM) induced the formation of these deposits. The carbonates preserve a typical mollusk dominated, Late Mesozoic, deep-water seep fauna including the large modiomorphid bivalve Caspiconcha, the lucinid bivalve Ezolucina, and limpets, hokkaidoconchids and a large abyssochrysoid among the gastropods, with close biogeographic relationships to North Pacific seep faunas of Cretaceous age. In contrast to the general marine mollusk fauna of New Zealand, which shows a high degree of endemism in both the Cenozoic and Recent, New Zealands Cretaceous to present-day seep faunas consist largely of taxa known from coeval seeps around the world. Thus while deep-water seeps in New Zealand were repeatedly or continuously colonized by members of the global seep fauna, the general mollusk fauna of the New Zealand region developed a considerable degree of endemism during this time. (C) 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2013	10.1016/j.palaeo.2012.10.033
Liu, Y; Lai, QL; Dong, CM; Sun, FQ; Wang, LP; Li, GY; Shao, ZZ	Phylogenetic Diversity of the Bacillus pumilus Group and the Marine Ecotype Revealed by Multilocus Sequence Analysis	PLOS ONE	Bacteria closely related to Bacillus pumilus cannot be distinguished from such other species as B. safensis, B. stratosphericus, B. altitudinis and B. aerophilus simply by 16S rRNA gene sequence. In this report, 76 marine strains were subjected to phylogenetic analysis based on 7 housekeeping genes to understand the phylogeny and biogeography in comparison with other origins. A phylogenetic tree based on the 7 housekeeping genes concatenated in the order of gyrB-rpoB-pycA-pyrE-mutL-aroE-trpB was constructed and compared with trees based on the single genes. All these trees exhibited a similar topology structure with small variations. Our 79 strains were divided into 6 groups from A to F; Group A was the largest and contained 49 strains close to B. altitudinis. Additional two large groups were presented by B. safensis and B. pumilus respectively. Among the housekeeping genes, gyrB and pyrE showed comparatively better resolution power and may serve as molecular markers to distinguish these closely related strains. Furthermore, a recombinant phylogenetic tree based on the gyrB gene and containing 73 terrestrial and our isolates was constructed to detect the relationship between marine and other sources. The tree clearly showed that the bacteria of marine origin were clustered together in all the large groups. In contrast, the cluster belonging to B. safensis was mainly composed of bacteria of terrestrial origin. Interestingly, nearly all the marine isolates were at the top of the tree, indicating the possibility of the recent divergence of this bacterial group in marine environments. We conclude that B. altitudinis bacteria are the most widely spread of the B. pumilus group in marine environments. In summary, this report provides the first evidence regarding the systematic evolution of this bacterial group, and knowledge of their phylogenetic diversity will help in the understanding of their ecological role and distribution in marine environments.	2013	10.1371/journal.pone.0080097
Moreira, C; Vasconcelos, V; Antunes, A	Phylogeny and Biogeography of Cyanobacteria and Their Produced Toxins	MARINE DRUGS	Phylogeny is an evolutionary reconstruction of the past relationships of DNA or protein sequences and it can further be used as a tool to assess population structuring, genetic diversity and biogeographic patterns. In the microbial world, the concept that everything is everywhere is widely accepted. However, it is much debated whether microbes are easily dispersed globally or whether they, like many macro-organisms, have historical biogeographies. Biogeography can be defined as the science that documents the spatial and temporal distribution of a given taxa in the environment at local, regional and continental scales. Speciation, extinction and dispersal are proposed to explain the generation of biogeographic patterns. Cyanobacteria are a diverse group of microorganisms that inhabit a wide range of ecological niches and are well known for their toxic secondary metabolite production. Knowledge of the evolution and dispersal of these microorganisms is still limited, and further research to understand such topics is imperative. Here, we provide a compilation of the most relevant information regarding these issues to better understand the present state of the art as a platform for future studies, and we highlight examples of both phylogenetic and biogeographic studies in non-symbiotic cyanobacteria and cyanotoxins.	2013	10.3390/md11114350
Sprent, JI; Ardley, JK; James, EK	From North to South: A latitudinal look at legume nodulation processes	SOUTH AFRICAN JOURNAL OF BOTANY	Legumes and some nodulation processes evolved about 55-60 Ma. Since then they have radiated from their origin at either side of the Tethys seaway, to high latitudes in both the northern and southern hemispheres. In many cases this has involved different tribes and genera, and different nodule processes, but with the common feature that almost all legumes in the higher latitudes are potentially nodulated and, with the exception of some herbaceous species of Chamaecrista, nodulated caesalpinioid legumes are rare. This is not true of tropical regions where all three sub-families are found, with many of their species lacking the ability to nodulate. Whether or not this is related to the availability of combined nitrogen is a matter of current discussion. This review will consider the range of nodulation phenotypes (infection, morphology, structure) and show how many of these are confined to one or other hemisphere. How this might relate to the different genera and species of endophytic (nitrogen fixing) rhizobia in relation to soil conditions will also be discussed. Better knowledge of the wide variation in nodulation parameters is important for understanding the ecology of different regions and for management purposes. Nodule characters are of great potential use in defining taxonomic groupings in legumes. (C) 2013 SAAB. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2013	10.1016/j.sajb.2013.06.011
Sokol, ER; Herbold, CW; Lee, CK; Cary, SC; Barrett, JE	Local and regional influences over soil microbial metacommunities in the Transantarctic Mountains	ECOSPHERE	The metacommunity concept provides a useful framework to assess the influence of local and regional controls over diversity patterns. Culture-independent studies of soil microbial communities in the McMurdo Dry Valleys of East Antarctica (77 degrees S) have shown that bacterial diversity is related to soil geochemical gradients, while studies targeting edaphic cyanobacteria have linked local diversity patterns to dispersal-based processes. In this study, we increased the spatial extent of observed soil microbial communities to cover the Beardmore Glacier region in the central Transantarctic Mountains (84 degrees S). We used community profiling techniques to characterize diversity patterns for bacteria and the cyanobacterial subcomponent of the microbial community. Diversity partitioning was used to calculate beta diversity and estimate among-site dissimilarity in the metacommunity. We then used variation partitioning to assess the relationship between beta diversity and environmental and spatial gradients. We found that dominant groups in the soil bacterial metacommunity were influenced by gradients in pH and soil moisture at the Transantarctic scale (800 km). Conversely, beta diversity for the cyanobacterial component of the edaphic microbial metacommunity was decoupled from these environmental gradients, and was more related to spatial filters, suggesting that wind-driven dispersal dynamics created cyanobacterial biogeography at a local scale (<3 km).	2013	10.1890/ES13-00136.1
Vetrovsky, T; Baldrian, P	Analysis of soil fungal communities by amplicon pyrosequencing: current approaches to data analysis and the introduction of the pipeline SEED	BIOLOGY AND FERTILITY OF SOILS	Fungi are important in soils as both decomposers and plant symbionts, and an understanding of the composition of their complex communities is thus indispensable to answer a variety of ecological questions. 454 Pyrosequencing is currently the method of choice for the in-depth analysis of fungal communities. However, the interpretation of its results is complicated by differences in data analysis approaches that make inter-study comparisons difficult. The pyrosequencing studies published so far have also used variable molecular targets in fungal rDNA. Although the ITS region and, in particular, ITS1 appear to be the most frequent sequencing targets, the use of various primers with different coverages of fungal groups remains a serious problem. Sequence length limits also vary widely across studies, and in many studies, length differences may negatively affect sequence similarity clustering or identification. Unfortunately, many studies neglect the need to correct for method-dependent errors, such as pyrosequencing noise or chimeric sequences. Even when performed, error rates in sequences may be high, and consensus sequences created by sequence clustering therefore better represent operational taxonomic units. We recommend a data analysis workflow that includes sequence denoising, chimera removal, sequence trimming before clustering and random resampling before calculating diversity parameters. The newly developed free pipeline (SEED) introduced here can be used to perform all the required analytical steps. The improvement and unification of data analysis procedures should make future studies both more reliable and comparable and allow meta-studies to be performed to provide more general views on fungal diversity, biogeography or ecology.	2013	10.1007/s00374-013-0801-y
Keiser, AD; Knoepp, JD; Bradford, MA	Microbial communities may modify how litter quality affects potential decomposition rates as tree species migrate	PLANT AND SOIL	Climate change alters regional plant species distributions, creating new combinations of litter species and soil communities. Biogeographic patterns in microbial communities relate to dissimilarity in microbial community function, meaning novel litters to communities may decompose differently than predicted from their chemical composition. Therefore, the effect of a litter species in the biogeochemical cycle of its current environment may not predict patterns after migration. Under a tree migration sequence we test whether litter quality alone drives litter decomposition, or whether soil communities modify quality effects. Litter and soils were sampled across an elevation gradient of different overstory species where lower elevation species are predicted to migrate upslope. We use a common garden, laboratory microcosm design (soil community x litter environment) with single and mixed-species litters. We find significant litter quality and microbial community effects (P < 0.001), explaining 47 % of the variation in decomposition for mixed-litters. Soil community effects are driven by the functional breadth, or historical exposure, of the microbial communities, resulting in lower decomposition of litters inoculated with upslope communities. The litter x soil community interaction suggests that litter decomposition rates in forests of changing tree species composition will be a product of both litter quality and the recipient soil community.	2013	10.1007/s11104-013-1730-0
Ramond, JB; Tshabuse, F; Bopda, CW; Cowan, DA; Tuffin, MI	Evidence of variability in the structure and recruitment of rhizospheric and endophytic bacterial communities associated with arable sweet sorghum (Sorghum bicolor (L) Moench)	PLANT AND SOIL	Sorghum is the second most cultivated crop in Africa and is a staple food source in many African communities. Exploiting the associated plant growth-promoting bacteria (PGPB) has potential as an agricultural biotechnology strategy to enhance sorghum growth, yield and nutritional properties. Therefore this study aimed to evaluate factors that shape bacterial communities associated with sorghum farmed in South Africa, and to detect bacteria consistently associated with sorghum which may impart PGP activities. Terminal-Restriction Fragment Length Polymorphism (T-RFLP) was used to assess factors that potentially shape rhizospheric (rhizosphere and rhizoplane) and endophytic (root, shoot, stem) bacterial communities associated with South African sorghum, and together with Denaturing Gradient Gel Electrophoresis (DGGE) to identify consistently sorghum-associated bacterial taxa. The sorghum rhizospheric communities were less variable than the endophytic ones. Geographical location was the main driver in describing bacterial community assemblages found in rhizospheric sorghum-linked niches, with total NO3-N, NH4-N, nitrogen, carbon, pH and, to a lesser extent, clay content identified as the main abiotic factors shaping sorghum-associated soil communities. Endophytic communities presented rather stochastic assemblages, with pH being the main variable explaining their structures. Despite community variations, specific bacterial taxa were consistently detected in sorghum-created rhizospheric and endophytic environments, irrespective of environmental factor effects. Soil structure and composition, which are influenced by agricultural practices, played major roles in shaping sorghum-associated edaphic bacterial communities. In contrast, endophytic bacterial communities displayed more variation. Nevertheless, potentially agronomically relevant (cyano)bacterial taxa constantly associated with sorghum were identified which is suggestive of their deterministic recruitment.	2013	10.1007/s11104-013-1737-6
Fierer, N; Ladau, J; Clemente, JC; Leff, JW; Owens, SM; Pollard, KS; Knight, R; Gilbert, JA; McCulley, RL	Reconstructing the Microbial Diversity and Function of Pre-Agricultural Tallgrass Prairie Soils in the United States	SCIENCE	Native tallgrass prairie once dominated much of the midwestern United States, but this biome and the soil microbial diversity that once sustained this highly productive system have been almost completely eradicated by decades of agricultural practices. We reconstructed the soil microbial diversity that once existed in this biome by analyzing relict prairie soils and found that the biogeographical patterns were largely driven by changes in the relative abundance of Verrucomicrobia, a poorly studied bacterial phylum that appears to dominate many prairie soils. Shotgun metagenomic data suggested that these spatial patterns were associated with strong shifts in carbon dynamics. We show that metagenomic approaches can be used to reconstruct below-ground biogeochemical and diversity gradients in endangered ecosystems; such information could be used to improve restoration efforts, given that even small changes in below-ground microbial diversity can have important impacts on ecosystem processes.	2013	10.1126/science.1243768
Bobrov, A; Krasilnikov, P; Garcia-Calderon, NE	Biogeography of testate amoebae in the soils of Mexico	BIODIVERSITY AND CONSERVATION	We studied testate amoebae (testates) in the soils of coniferous and deciduous forests and in the wetland and aquatic habitats of Mexico. In 141 samples we found 205 taxa identified to the species or intraspecies level and 68 testate amoebae, which could not be identified to the species level. The highest species diversity of testates was found in the soils of the tropical rainforest (126 species and intraspecific taxa, including spp.) and in tropical wetlands (144 species and intraspecific taxa, including spp.). The study documented testate amoebae with a limited geographical distribution (genera Centropyxis, Cornuapyxis, Ellipsopyxis, Hoogenraadia, Planhoogenraadia, Apolimia, Certesella, Apodera, and Alocodera). We found that testate amoebae in the soils of Mexico had a high level of polymorphism and individual variability. We discuss the value of soil testate amoebae for defining biogeographical regions of Mexico.	2013	10.1007/s10531-013-0558-5
Pita, L; Turon, X; Lopez-Legentil, S; Erwin, PM	Host rules: spatial stability of bacterial communities associated with marine sponges (Ircinia spp.) in the Western Mediterranean Sea	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Dispersal limitation and environmental selection are the main processes shaping free-living microbial communities, but host-related factors may also play a major role in structuring symbiotic communities. Here, we aimed to determine the effects of isolation-by-distance and host species on the spatial structure of sponge-associated bacterial communities using as a model the abundant demosponge genus Ircinia. We targeted three co-occurring Ircinia species and used terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) analysis of 16S rRNA gene sequences to explore the differentiation of their bacterial communities across a scale of hundreds of kilometres in the Western Mediterranean Sea. Multivariate analysis and nonmetric multidimensional scaling plots of T-RFLP profiles showed that bacterial communities in Ircinia sponges were structured by host species and remained stable across sampling locations, despite geographic distances (80-800km) and diverse local conditions. While significant differences among some locations were observed in Ircinia variabilis-derived communities, no correlation between geographic distance and community similarity was consistently detected for symbiotic bacteria in any host sponge species. Our results indicate that bacterial communities are mostly shaped by host species-specific factors and suggest that evolutionary processes acting on long-term symbiotic relationships have favored spatial stability of sponge-associated bacterial communities.	2013	10.1111/1574-6941.12159
Lee, JE; Buckley, HL; Etienne, RS; Lear, G	Both species sorting and neutral processes drive assembly of bacterial communities in aquatic microcosms	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	A focus of ecology is to determine drivers of community assembly. Here, we investigate effects of immigration and species sorting (environmental selection) on structuring aquatic bacterial communities in both colonised and previously uncolonised environments. We used nonsterilised and presterilised water from three chemically distinct ponds to establish microcosms, which were opened for 12, 24, 48, 96 or 167h and then closed again to allow airborne bacterial immigration and subsequent succession. Community similarity, richness, evenness and the parameters of a neutral model were investigated after 167h. Immigration appeared to govern the assembly of communities in the presterilised water as there were no significant differences in evenness among microcosm communities containing water from each pond. Statistical estimation of neutral model parameters confirmed these findings, because the estimated immigration rate changed significantly with time of exposure to immigration. Species sorting also occurred because significant differences in community similarity (for presterilised and nonsterilised communities) and evenness (only for nonsterilised communities) were detected among microcosms containing different pond water; the magnitude of these differences was greater for communities in nonsterilised microcosms. Our study provides evidence for both processes being important during the colonisation of aquatic environments and presents a novel way to apply the neutral model.	2013	10.1111/1574-6941.12161
Borer, ET; Kinkel, LL; May, G; Seabloom, EW	The world within: Quantifying the determinants and outcomes of a hosts microbiome	BASIC AND APPLIED ECOLOGY	The fungal, bacterial, and viral microbial communities embedded as endosymbionts within all free-living organisms are extremely diverse and encode the vast majority of genes in the biosphere. Microbes in a human, for example, account for 100 times more genes than their host; similar results are emerging for virtually all free-living organisms. Disease is the best studied host-microbe interaction, but endosymbiotic microbial populations and communities also are responsible for critical functions in their hosts including nutrient uptake (plants), reduction in inflammatory responses (animals), digestion (animals), anti-herbivore defenses (plants), and pathogen resistance. In spite of the tremendous diversity and functional importance of the microbial biome to free-living organisms, we have little predictive understanding of the biotic and abiotic factors controlling within-host microbial community composition or the spatial scales at which anthropogenic changes affect host and microbial community interactions and functions. Current research suggests that anthropogenic changes to nutrient supply and food web composition can affect biological systems at scales ranging from individuals to continents. However, while current studies are clarifying the effects of some of these drivers on the structure and functioning of ecosystems, we have far less knowledge of their effects on microbial communities residing within hosts. Given the accelerating progress in metagenome studies, we are poised to make rapid advances in understanding the determinants and effects of within-host microbial communities.	2013	10.1016/j.baae.2013.08.009
Vanormelingen, P; Evans, KM; Chepurnov, VA; Vyverman, W; Mann, DG	Molecular species discovery in the diatom Sellaphora and its congruence with mating trials	FOTTEA	Many diatom and other microbial eukaryote morphospecies consist of a variable number of (pseudo)cryptic species, with obvious consequences for such fields as biogeography and community ecology. Here, we investigated the species limits of morphologically similar small celled strains of the model diatom Sellaphora from the United Kingdom and Australia, using coxl mitochondrial and rbeL chloroplast gene sequences. Based on coxl sequence data, the sequenced strains belonged to six closely related lineages, presumably species, of which one corresponds to the previously described S. auldreekie D.G. MANN & S.M. MCDONALD. Although rbcL displayed less sequence variation, the same six lineages were also recovered in an rbeL phylogeny of the genus. Molecular species discovery was compared to mating trials involving three of the lineages, showing that they were reproductively isolated. Incomplete evidence from a fourth lineage suggested that it too was reproductively isolated. A posteriori examination of light microscope morphology revealed no simple metrics or presence/absence characters that could consistently separate all species of the auldreekie complex, even though some do differ in pole width or stria density. While it is premature to make conclusions about their biogeography, it is obvious that a number of cryptic Sellaphora species thus far undetected in the UK are easily found at several localities in warm temperate Australia.	2013	
Washington, VJ; Lear, G; Neale, MW; Lewis, GD	Environmental effects on biofilm bacterial communities: a comparison of natural and anthropogenic factors in New Zealand streams	FRESHWATER BIOLOGY	We investigated the resident bacterial communities within the biofilm of 252 streams in New Zealand with the aim of assessing the community variation associated with natural and anthropogenic-influenced environmental characteristics. This work is part of a larger project investigating the use of bacterial communities as biological indicators, and here we assess how predictable the variation in bacterial community is in response to environmental influences. Samples of epilithic biofilm were collected in the Austral Summer of 2010, and bacterial communities were characterised using the DNA-fingerprinting technique automated ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis (ARISA). Multivariate analysis of the ARISA data revealed that geographical location (region) was a better predictor of bacterial community structure than land use. Our finding that taxon richness varied with geographical location, decreasing along a north to south (increasing latitude) gradient, and that land use had no significant effect on taxon richness suggests that bacterial communities have great potential to act as biological indicators of stream health. In particular, the maintenance of taxon richness at impacted sites is a key advantage since the local extinction of many traditional indicator organisms, such as fish or macroinvertebrates, often precludes their further use. Our conceptual model of bacterial community structure proposes that stream biofilm communities are comprised of four broad groups of bacteria: ubiquitous bacteria (found at all sites), region-specific bacteria (those representative of geographical areas), natural-state bacteria (those associated with unmodified systems) and impact-related bacteria (those associated with human activities). The proportion of these four groups at a particular sample site would provide the basis of a novel bacterial community index of stream health.	2013	10.1111/fwb.12208
Briggs, BR; Graw, M; Brodie, EL; Bahk, JJ; Kim, SH; Hyun, JH; Kim, JH; Torres, M; Colwell, FS	Microbial distributions detected by an oligonucleotide microarray across geochemical zones associated with methane in marine sediments from the Ulleung Basin	MARINE AND PETROLEUM GEOLOGY	The biogeochemical processes that occur in marine sediments on continental margins are complex; however, from one perspective they can be considered with respect to three geochemical zones based on the presence and form of methane: sulfate-methane transition (SMTZ), gas hydrate stability zone (GHSZ), and free gas zone (FGZ). These geochemical zones may harbor distinct microbial communities that are important in biogeochemical carbon cycles. The objective of this study was to describe the microbial communities in sediments from the SMTZ, GHSZ, and FGZ using molecular ecology methods (i.e. PhyloChip microarray analysis and terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP)) and examining the results in the context of non-biological parameters in the sediments. Non-metric multidimensional scaling and multi-response permutation procedures were used to determine whether microbial community compositions were significantly different in the three geochemical zones and to correlate samples with abiotic characteristics of the sediments. This analysis indicated that microbial communities from all three zones were distinct from one another and that variables such as sulfate concentration, hydrate saturation of the nearest gas hydrate layer, and depth (or unmeasured variables associated with depth e.g. temperature, pressure) were correlated to differences between the three zones. The archaeal anaerobic methanotrophs typically attributed to performing anaerobic oxidation of methane were not detected in the SMTZ; however, the marine benthic group-B, which is often found in SMTZ, was detected. Within the GHSZ, samples that were typically closer to layers that contained higher hydrate saturation had indicator sequences related to Vibrio-type taxa. These results suggest that the biogeographic patterns of microbial communities in marine sediments are distinct based on geochemical zones defined by methane. (C) 2013 Published by Elsevier Ltd.	2013	10.1016/j.marpetgeo.2013.02.015
Jadoon, WA; Nakai, R; Naganuma, T	Biogeographical note on Antarctic microflorae: Endemism and cosmopolitanism	GEOSCIENCE FRONTIERS	This study deals with the biogeography of Antarctic microflora (Antarctica acts as best model to study microbial biogeography) such as cyanobacteria and selected halophiles with special emphasis on Halomonas variabilis and Bacillus licheniformis. Halophiles are known to be resistant not only to salt stress, but also to extreme temperature, pressure, and aridity and they are capable of surviving in harsh environments such as polar regions, deep-sea habitats, and deserts. Many microbes are known to be resistant to hostile environmental conditions, and are capable of surviving in harsh environments. Our group has isolated 444 strains belonging to 28 genera of halophiles from various environments around the world. The 16S rRNA gene sequences revealed that many of the isolated strains from geographically distant habitats having different environmental conditions, were closely related to each other, with some strains possessing 100% identical sequences. Organisms possessing survival mechanism such as spore formation are usually ubiquitous. The genus Halomonas is represented by potentially endemic strains and the ubiquitous H. variabilis, while spore-forming B. licheniformis showed cosmopolitan distribution. One potentially endemic (moderate endemicity that is regional and/or continental distribution) strain was reported from Syowa station, East Antarctica, and Mario Zucchelli station, West Antarctica, which are geographically separated by 3000 km. Moreover, 15 strains having 100% similarity with B. licheniformis were considered cosmopolitans. The results of this work provide support for the middle-ground model that some microbes have moderate endemicity and others have cosmopolitan distribution. These results will contribute to a greater understanding of microbial biogeography with special emphasis on Antarctica. (C) 2012, China University of Geosciences (Beijing) and Peking University. Production and hosting by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2013	10.1016/j.gsf.2012.11.002
Zhu, DC; Tanabe, SH; Yang, C; Zhang, WM; Sun, JZ	Bacterial Community Composition of South China Sea Sediments through Pyrosequencing-Based Analysis of 16S rRNA Genes	PLOS ONE	Background: Subseafloor sediments accumulate large amounts of organic and inorganic materials that contain a highly diverse microbial ecosystem. The aim of this study was to survey the bacterial community of subseafloor sediments from the South China Sea. Methodology/Principal Findings: Pyrosequencing of over 265,000 amplicons of the V3 hypervariable region of the 16S ribosomal RNA gene was performed on 16 sediment samples collected from multiple locations in the northern region of the South China Sea from depths ranging from 35 to 4000 m. A total of 9,726 operational taxonomic units (OTUs; between 695 and 2819 unique OTUs per sample) at 97% sequence similarity level were generated. In total, 40 bacterial phyla including 22 formally described phyla and 18 candidate phyla, with Proteobacteria, Firmicutes, Planctomycetes, Actinobacteria and Chloroflexi being most diverse, were identified. The most abundant phylotype, accounting for 42.6% of all sequences, belonged to Gammaproteobacteria, which possessed absolute predominance in the samples analyzed. Among the 18 candidate phyla, 12 were found for the first time in the South China Sea. Conclusions: This study provided a novel insight into the composition of bacterial communities of the South China Sea subseafloor. Furthermore, abundances and community similarity analysis showed that the compositions of the bacterial communities are very similar at phylum level at different depths from 35-4000 m.	2013	10.1371/journal.pone.0078501
Salgado-Salazar, C; Rossman, AY; Chaverri, P	Not as Ubiquitous as We Thought: Taxonomic Crypsis, Hidden Diversity and Cryptic Speciation in the Cosmopolitan Fungus Thelonectria discophora (Nectriaceae, Hypocreales, Ascomycota)	PLOS ONE	The distribution of microbial species, including fungi, has long been considered cosmopolitan. Recently, this perception has been challenged by molecular studies in historical biogeography, phylogeny and population genetics. Here we explore this issue using the fungal morphological species Thelonectria discophora, one of the most common species of fungi in the family Nectriaceae, encountered in almost all geographic regions and considered as a cosmopolitan taxon. In order to determine if T. discophora is a single cosmopolitan species or an assemblage of sibling species, we conducted various phylogenetic analyses, including standard gene concatenation, Bayesian concordance methods, and coalescent-based species tree reconstruction on isolates collected from a wide geographic range. Results show that diversity among isolates referred as T. discophora is greatly underestimated and that it represents a species complex. Within this complex, sixteen distinct highly supported lineages were recovered, each of which has a restricted geographic distribution and ecology. The taxonomic status of isolates regarded as T. discophora is reconsidered, and the assumed cosmopolitan distribution of this species is rejected. We discuss how assumptions about geographically widespread species have implications regarding their taxonomy, true diversity, biological diversity conservation, and ecological functions.	2013	10.1371/journal.pone.0076737
Carson, HS; Nerheim, MS; Carroll, KA; Eriksen, M	The plastic-associated microorganisms of the North Pacific Gyre	MARINE POLLUTION BULLETIN	Microorganisms likely mediate processes affecting the fate and impacts of marine plastic pollution, including degradation, chemical adsorption, and colonization or ingestion by macroorganisms. We investigated the relationship between plastic-associated microorganism communities and factors such as location, temperature, salinity, plankton abundance, plastic concentration, item size, surface roughness, and polymer type. Small plastic items from the surface of the North Pacific Gyre in 2011 were examined using scanning electron microscopy. Bacillus bacteria (mean 1664 +/- 247 individuals mm(-2)) and pennate diatoms (1097 +/- 154 mm(-2)) were most abundant, with coccoid bacteria, centric diatoms, dinoflagellates, coccolithophores, and radiolarians present. Bacterial abundance was patchy, but increased on foamed polystyrene. Diatom abundance increased on items with rough surfaces and at sites with high plastic concentrations. Morphotype richness increased slightly on larger fragments, and a biogeographic transition occurred between pennate diatom groups. Better characterizing this community will aid in understanding how it interacts with plastic pollution. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2013	10.1016/j.marpolbul.2013.07.054
Cunha, MR; Matos, FL; Genio, L; Hilario, A; Moura, CJ; Ravara, A; Rodrigues, CF	Are Organic Falls Bridging Reduced Environments in the Deep Sea? - Results from Colonization Experiments in the Gulf of Cadiz	PLOS ONE	Organic falls create localised patches of organic enrichment and disturbance where enhanced degradation is mediated by diversified microbial assemblages and specialized fauna. The view of organic falls as stepping stones for the colonization of deep-sea reducing environments has been often loosely used, but much remains to be proven concerning their capability to bridge dispersal among such environments. Aiming the clarification of this issue, we used an experimental approach to answer the following questions: Are relatively small organic falls in the deep sea capable of sustaining taxonomically and trophically diverse assemblages over demographically relevant temporal scales? Are there important depth- or site-related sources of variability for the composition and structure of these assemblages? Is the proximity of other reducing environments influential for their colonization? We analysed the taxonomical and trophic diversity patterns and partitioning (alpha- and beta-diversity) of the macrofaunal assemblages recruited in small colonization devices with organic and inorganic substrata after 1-2 years of deployment on mud volcanoes of the Gulf of Cadiz. Our results show that small organic falls can sustain highly diverse and trophically coherent assemblages for time periods allowing growth to reproductive maturity, and successive generations of dominant species. The composition and structure of the assemblages showed variability consistent with their biogeographic and bathymetric contexts. However, the proximity of cold seeps had limited influence on the similarity between the assemblages of these two habitats and organic falls sustained a distinctive fauna with dominant substrate-specific taxa. We conclude that it is unlikely that small organic falls may regularly ensure population connectivity among cold seeps and vents. They may be a recurrent source of evolutionary candidates for the colonization of such ecosystems. However, there may be a critical size of organic fall to create the necessary intense and persistent reducing conditions for sustaining typical chemosymbiotic vent and seep organisms.	2013	10.1371/journal.pone.0076688
Kilias, E; Wolf, C; Nothig, EM; Peeken, I; Metfies, K	PROTIST DISTRIBUTION IN THE WESTERN FRAM STRAIT IN SUMMER 2010 BASED ON 454-PYROSEQUENCING OF 18S RDNA	JOURNAL OF PHYCOLOGY	In this study, we present the first comprehensive analyses of the diversity and distribution of marine protist (micro-, nano-, and picoeukaryotes) in the Western Fram Strait, using 454-pyrosequencing and high-pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC) at five stations in summer 2010. Three stations (T1; T5; T7) were influenced by Polar Water, characterized by cold water with lower salinity (<33) and different extents of ice concentrations. Atlantic Water influenced the other two stations (T6; T9). While T6 was located in the mixed water zone characterized by cold water with intermediate salinity (similar to 33) and high ice concentrations, T9 was located in warm water with high salinity (similar to 35) and no ice-coverage at all. General trends in community structure according to prevailing environmental settings, observed with both methods, coincided well. At two stations, T1 and T7, characterized by lower ice concentrations, diatoms (Fragilariopsis sp., Porosira sp., Thalassiosira spp.) dominated the protist community. The third station (T5) was ice-covered, but has been ice-free for similar to 4weeks prior to sampling. At this station, dinoflagellates (Dinophyceae 1, Woloszynskia sp. and Gyrodinium sp.) were dominant, reflecting a post-bloom situation. At station T6 and T9, the protist communities consisted mainly of picoeukaryotes, e.g., Micromonas spp. Based on our results, 454-pyrosequencing has proven to be an adequate tool to provide comprehensive information on the composition of protist communities. Furthermore, this study suggests that a snap-shot of a few, but well-chosen samples can provide an overview of community structure patterns and succession in a dynamic marine environment.	2013	10.1111/jpy.12109
Allen, AE; Allen, LZ; McCrow, JP	Lineage specific gene family enrichment at the microscale in marine systems	CURRENT OPINION IN MICROBIOLOGY	Recent advances in metagenomics have generated numerous insights related to the cell biology, ecology, evolution, and biogeochemistry of microbial life in the ocean. Notably, advances in single cell genomics (SCG), fluorescence activated cell sorting (FACS) capture of specific populations and metagenomic assembly are providing valuable information related to within and between lineage genomic content. Improved reference genome databases have assisted biogeographic studies of particular taxa, including in some cases different ecotypes. Several studies targeting picoplankton, associated with various particle size classes, have begun to define contrasting trends in gene family evolution between free-living compared to particle associated microbes. Also viruses and eukaryotic microbes are increasingly considered in metagenomic studies and specific associations between viruses, bacteria, archaea, and eukaryotic microbes are emerging.	2013	10.1016/j.mib.2013.10.001
Geyer, KM; Altrichter, AE; Van Horn, DJ; Takacs-Vesbach, CD; Gooseff, MN; Barrett, JE	Environmental controls over bacterial communities in polar desert soils	ECOSPHERE	Productivity-diversity theory has proven informative to many investigations seeking to understand drivers of spatial patterns in biotic communities and relationships between resource availability and community structure documented for a wide variety of taxa. For soil bacteria, availability of organic matter is one such resource known to influence diversity and community structure. Here we describe the influence of environmental gradients on soil bacterial communities of the McMurdo Dry Valleys, Antarctica, a model ecosystem that hosts simple, microbially-dominated foodwebs believed to be primarily structured by abiotic drivers such as water, organic matter, pH, and electrical conductivity. We sampled 48 locations exhibiting orders of magnitude ranges in primary production and soil geochemistry (pH and electrical conductivity) over local and regional scales. Our findings show that environmental gradients imposed by cryptogam productivity and regional variation in geochemistry influence the diversity and structure of soil bacterial communities. Responses of soil bacterial richness to carbon content illustrate a productivity-diversity relationship, while bacterial community structure primarily responds to soil pH and electrical conductivity. This diversity response to resource availability and a community structure response to environmental severity suggests a need for careful consideration of how microbial communities and associated functions may respond to shifting environmental conditions resulting from human activity and climate variability.	2013	10.1890/ES13-00048.1
Naff, CS; Darcy, JL; Schmidt, SK	Phylogeny and biogeography of an uncultured clade of snow chytrids	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Numerous studies have shown that snow can contain a diverse array of algae known as snow algae. Some reports also indicate that parasites of algae (e.g. chytrids) are also found in snow, but efforts to phylogenetically identify snow chytrids have not been successful. We used culture-independent molecular approaches to phylogenetically identify chytrids that are common in long-lived snowpacks of Colorado and Europe. The most remarkable finding of the present study was the discovery of a new clade of chytrids that has representatives in snowpacks of Colorado and Switzerland and cold sites in Nepal and France, but no representatives from warmer ecosystems. This new clade (Snow Clade 1 or SC1) is as deeply divergent as its sister clade, the Lobulomycetales, and phylotypes of SC1 show significant (P<0.003) genetic-isolation by geographic distance patterns, perhaps indicating a long evolutionary history in the cryosphere. In addition to SC1, other snow chytrids were phylogenetically shown to be in the order Rhizophydiales, a group with known algal parasites and saprotrophs. We suggest that these newly discovered snow chytrids are important components of snow ecosystems where they contribute to snow food-web dynamics and the release of nutrients due to their parasitic and saprotrophic activities.	2013	10.1111/1462-2920.12116
Lin, YJ; Gazsi, K; Lance, VP; Larkin, AA; Chandler, JW; Zinser, ER; Johnson, ZI	In situ activity of a dominant Prochlorococcus ecotype (eHL-II) from rRNA content and cell size	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	In the open ocean genetically diverse clades of the unicellular cyanobacteria Prochlorococcus are biogeographically structured along environmental gradients, yet little is known about their in situ activity. To address this gap, here we use the numerically dominant Prochlorococcus clade eHL-II (eMIT9312) as a model organism to develop and apply a method to examine their in situ activity using rRNA content and cell size as metrics of cellular physiology. For two representative isolates (MIT9312 and MIT9215) rRNA cell(-1) increases linearly with specific growth rate but is anticorrelated with cell size indicated by flow cytometrically measured (SSC). Although each strain has a unique relationship between cellular rRNA (or cell size) and growth rate, both strains have the same strong positive correlation between rRNA cell(-1) SSC-1 and growth rate. We field test this approach and observe distinct patterns of eHL-II clade specific activity (rRNA cell(-1) SSC-1) with depth that are consistent with patterns of photosynthetic rates. This molecular technique provides unique insight into the ecology of Prochlorococcus and could potentially be expanded to include other microbes to unravel the ecological and biogeochemical contributions of genetically distinct marine side scatter microbes.	2013	10.1111/1462-2920.12135
Fontaneto, D; Hortal, J	At least some protist species are not ubiquitous	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	Body size is one of the main regulators of the ecological characteristics of living organisms, including their biogeography. The ubiquity hypothesis for microorganisms states that they are widely distributed, if not cosmopolitan, due to their small size that allows passive dispersal, in contrast to large organisms that are limited by geographical barriers in their active dispersal. Such idea, summarized in the tenet Everything is everywhere, but the environment selects, has driven most of the research in biogeography for microscopic organisms in the last decades, spurring a debate on whether there are fundamental differences in the biogeography of small and large organisms or not (Fenchel & Finlay 2004; Foissner 2008; Hortal 2011). The strong focus on the ubiquity hypothesis may have been often abused to provide a rationale for otherwise descriptive work on the spatial distribution of microscopic organisms; nevertheless, such focus also provides a framework to understand the mechanisms originating and maintaining biodiversity in space. The reliability of the analyses on unknown and understudied organisms is improving, and Heger etal. (2013) is a splendid example on small unicellular eukaryotes of what should be done to overcome the major problems and ambiguities that heated the debate on the ubiquity hypothesis.	2013	10.1111/mec.12507
Heger, TJ; Mitchell, EAD; Leander, BS	Holarctic phylogeography of the testate amoeba Hyalosphenia papilio (Amoebozoa: Arcellinida) reveals extensive genetic diversity explained more by environment than dispersal limitation	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	Although free-living protists play essential roles in aquatic and soil ecology, little is known about their diversity and phylogeography, especially in terrestrial ecosystems. We used mitochondrial cytochrome c oxidase subunit 1 (COI) gene sequences to investigate the genetic diversity and phylogeography of the testate amoeba morphospecies Hyalosphenia papilio in 42 Sphagnum (moss)-dominated peatlands in North America, Europe and Asia. Based on 1% sequence divergence threshold, our results from single-cell PCRs of 301 individuals revealed 12 different genetic lineages and both the general mixed Yule-coalescent (GMYC) model and the automatic barcode gap discovery (ABGD) methods largely support the hypothesis that these 12 H.papilio lineages correspond to evolutionary independent units (i.e. cryptic species). Our data also showed a high degree of genetic heterogeneity within different geographical regions. Furthermore, we used variation partitioning based on partial redundancy analyses (pRDA) to evaluate the contributions of climate and dispersal limitations on the distribution patterns of the different genetic lineages. The largest fraction of the variation in genetic lineage distribution was attributed to purely climatic factors (21%), followed by the joint effect of spatial and bioclimatic factors (13%), and a purely spatial effect (3%). Therefore, these data suggest that the distribution patterns of H.papilio genetic lineages in the Northern Hemisphere are more influenced by climatic conditions than by dispersal limitations.	2013	10.1111/mec.12449
Luna, GM; Corinaldesi, C; Rastelli, E; Danovaro, R	Patterns and drivers of bacterial alpha- and beta-diversity across vertical profiles from surface to subsurface sediments	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY REPORTS	We investigated the patterns and drivers of bacterial - and -diversity, along with viral and prokaryotic abundance and the carbon production rates, in marine surface and subsurface sediments (down to 1m depth) in two habitats: vegetated sediments (seagrass meadow) and non-vegetated sediments. Prokaryotic abundance and production decreased with depth in the sediment, but cell-specific production rates and the virus-to-prokaryote ratio increased, highlighting unexpectedly high activity in the subsurface. The highest diversity was observed in vegetated sediments. Bacterial -diversity between sediment horizons was high, and only a minor number of taxa was shared between surface and subsurface layers. Viruses significantly contributed to explain - and -diversity patterns. Despite potential limitations due to the only use of fingerprinting techniques, this study indicates that the coastal subsurface host highly active and diversified bacterial assemblages, that subsurface cells are more active than expected and that viruses promote -diversity and stimulate bacterial metabolism in subsurface layers. The limited number of taxa shared between habitats, and between surface and subsurface sediment horizons, suggests that future investigations of the shallow subsurface will provide insights into the census of bacterial diversity, and the comprehension of the patterns and drivers of prokaryotic diversity in marine ecosystems.	2013	10.1111/1758-2229.12075
Moeller, AH; Peeters, M; Ndjango, JB; Li, YY; Hahn, BH; Ochman, H	Sympatric chimpanzees and gorillas harbor convergent gut microbial communities	GENOME RESEARCH	The gut microbial communities within great apes have been shown to reflect the phylogenetic history of their hosts, indicating codiversification between great apes and their gut microbiota over evolutionary timescales. But because the great apes examined to date represent geographically isolated populations whose diets derive from different sources, it is unclear whether this pattern of codiversification has resulted from a long history of coadaptation between microbes and hosts (heritable factors) or from the ecological and geographic separation among host species (environmental factors). To evaluate the relative influences of heritable and environmental factors on the evolution of the great ape gut microbiota, we assayed the gut communities of sympatric and allopatric populations of chimpanzees, bonobos, and gorillas residing throughout equatorial Africa. Comparisons of these populations revealed that the gut communities of different host species can always be distinguished from one another but that the gut communities of sympatric chimpanzees and gorillas have converged in terms of community composition, sharing on average 53% more bacterial phylotypes than the gut communities of allopatric hosts. Host environment, independent of host genetics and evolutionary history, shaped the distribution of bacterial phylotypes across the Bacteroidetes, Firmicutes, Proteobacteria, and Actinobacteria, the four most common phyla of gut bacteria. Moreover, the specific patterns of phylotype sharing among hosts suggest that chimpanzees living in sympatry with gorillas have acquired bacteria from gorillas. These results indicate that geographic isolation between host species has promoted the evolutionary differentiation of great ape gut bacterial communities.	2013	10.1101/gr.154773.113
Cardenas, P; Rapp, HT; Klitgaard, AB; Best, M; Thollesson, M; Tendal, OS	Taxonomy, biogeography and DNA barcodes of Geodia species (Porifera, Demospongiae, Tetractinellida) in the Atlantic boreo-arctic region	ZOOLOGICAL JOURNAL OF THE LINNEAN SOCIETY	Geodia species north of 60 degrees N in the Atlantic appeared in the literature for the first time when Bowerbank described Geodia barretti and G.macandrewii in 1858 from western Norway. Since then, a number of species have been based on material from various parts of the region: G.simplex, Isops phlegraei, I.pallida, I.sphaeroides, Synops pyriformis, G.parva, G.normani, G.atlantica, Sidonops mesotriaena (now called G.hentscheli), and G.simplicissima. In addition to these 12 nominal species, four species described from elsewhere are claimed to have been identified in material from the northeast Atlantic, namely G.nodastrella and G.cydonium (and its synonyms Cydonium muelleri and Geodia gigas). In this paper, we revise the boreo-arctic Geodia species using morphological, molecular, and biogeographical data. We notably compare northwest and northeast Atlantic specimens. Biological data (reproduction, biochemistry, microbiology, epibionts) for each species are also reviewed. Our results show that there are six valid species of boreo-arctic Atlantic Geodia while other names are synonyms or mis-identifications. Geodia barretti, G.atlantica, G.macandrewii, and G.hentscheli are well established and widely distributed. The same goes for Geodia phlegraei, but this species shows a striking geographical and bathymetric variation, which led us to recognize two species, G.phlegraei and G.parva (here resurrected). Some Geodia are arctic species (G.hentscheli, G.parva), while others are typically boreal (G.atlantica, G.barretti, G.phlegraei, G.macandrewii). No morphological differences were found between specimens from the northeast and northwest Atlantic, except for G.parva. The Folmer cytochrome oxidase subunit I (COI) fragment is unique for every species and invariable over their whole distribution range, except for G.barretti which had two haplotypes. 18S is unique for four species but cannot discriminate G.phlegraei and G.parva. Two keys to the boreo-arctic Geodia are included, one based on external morphology, the other based on spicule morphology.(c) 2013 The Linnean Society of London	2013	10.1111/zoj.12056
Yamamura, T; Schwendenmann, L; Lear, G	Tree species identity has little impact on the structure of soil bacterial communities in a 10-year-old tropical tree plantation	BIOLOGY AND FERTILITY OF SOILS	We investigated whether tree species identity has a significant impact on the structure of soil bacterial communities in a tropical tree plantation (Sardinilla, Panama). The experimental site contains tree species native to Panama, planted in both monoculture and mixed-species plots. Using a DNA fingerprinting approach (automated ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis [ARISA]), we identified significant differences in the community structure of abundant bacterial taxa in the bulk soil among all monoculture plots. We similarly found differences among plots containing five, three, one or no tree species. While distance-based gradients in bacterial community structure were detected across the plantation, further investigation revealed that the observed heterogeneity was, in fact, poorly related to the tree species in a given plot. We provide evidence that site related features (e.g., variability in soil pH) play a more important role in regulating the structure of bacterial communities within the bulk soil than tree species identity or richness.	2013	10.1007/s00374-013-0774-x
Krause, S; Meima-Franke, M; Hefting, MM; Bodelier, PLE	Spatial patterns of methanotrophic communities along a hydrological gradient in a riparian wetland	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Microbial communities display a variety of biogeographical patterns mainly driven by large-scale environmental gradients. Here, we analysed the spatial distribution of methane-oxidizing bacteria (MOB) and methane oxidation in a strongly fluctuating environment. We investigated whether the spatial variability of the MOB community can be explained by an environmental gradient and whether this changes with different plot sizes. We applied a pmoA-specific microarray to detect MOB, measured methane oxidation, methane emissions and soil properties. All variables were measured in a 10x10m, 1x1m and 20x20cm plot and interpreted using a geostatistical approach. Methane oxidation as well as MOB displayed spatial patterns reflected in the underlying flooding gradient. Overlapping and contrasting spatial patterns for type I and type II MOB suggested different ecological life strategies. With smaller plot size, the environmental gradient could not explain the variability in the data and local factors became more important. In conclusion, environmental gradients can generally explain variability in microbial spatial patterns; however, we think that this does not contribute to a mechanistic explanation for microbial diversity because the relevant scales for microorganisms are much smaller than those normally measured.	2013	10.1111/1574-6941.12091
Steven, B; Gallegos-Graves, L; Belnap, J; Kuske, CR	Dryland soil microbial communities display spatial biogeographic patterns associated with soil depth and soil parent material	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Biological soil crusts (biocrusts) are common to drylands worldwide. We employed replicated, spatially nested sampling and 16S rRNA gene sequencing to describe the soil microbial communities in three soils derived from different parent material (sandstone, shale, and gypsum). For each soil type, two depths (biocrusts, 0-1cm; below-crust soils, 2-5cm) and two horizontal spatial scales (15cm and 5m) were sampled. In all three soils, Cyanobacteria and Proteobacteria demonstrated significantly higher relative abundance in the biocrusts, while Chloroflexi and Archaea were significantly enriched in the below-crust soils. Biomass and diversity of the communities in biocrusts or below-crust soils did not differ with soil type. However, biocrusts on gypsum soil harbored significantly larger populations of Actinobacteria and Proteobacteria and lower populations of Cyanobacteria. Numerically dominant operational taxonomic units (OTU; 97% sequence identity) in the biocrusts were conserved across the soil types, whereas two dominant OTUs in the below-crust sand and shale soils were not identified in the gypsum soil. The uniformity with which small-scale vertical community differences are maintained across larger horizontal spatial scales and soil types is a feature of dryland ecosystems that should be considered when designing management plans and determining the response of biocrusts to environmental disturbances.	2013	10.1111/1574-6941.12143
Angel, R; Pasternak, Z; Soares, MIM; Conrad, R; Gillor, O	Active and total prokaryotic communities in dryland soils	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	The relationship between total and metabolically active soil microbial communities can change drastically with environment. In dry lands, water availability is a key factor limiting cells activity. We surveyed the diversity of total and active Archaea and Bacteria in soils ranging from arid desert to Mediterranean forests. Thirty composited soil samples were retrieved from five sites along a precipitation gradient, collected from patches located between and under the dominant perennial plant at each site. Molecular fingerprinting was used to site-sort the communities according of their 16S rRNA genes (total community) and their rRNA (active community) amplified by PCR or RT-PCR from directly extracted soil nucleic acids. The differences between soil samples were much higher in total rather than active microbial communities: differences in DNA fingerprints between sites were 1.2 and 2.5 times higher than RNA differences (for Archaea and Bacteria, respectively). Patch-type discrepancies between DNA fingerprints were on average 2.7-19.7 times greater than RNA differences. Moreover, RNA-based community patterns were highly correlated with soil moisture but did not necessarily follow spatial distribution pattern. Our results suggest that in water-limited environments, the spatial patterns obtained by the analysis of active communities are not as robust as those drawn from total communities.	2013	10.1111/1574-6941.12155
Fortunato, CS; Eiler, A; Herfort, L; Needoba, JA; Peterson, TD; Crump, BC	Determining indicator taxa across spatial and seasonal gradients in the Columbia River coastal margin	ISME JOURNAL	Bacterioplankton communities are deeply diverse and highly variable across space and time, but several recent studies demonstrate repeatable and predictable patterns in this diversity. We expanded on previous studies by determining patterns of variability in both individual taxa and bacterial communities across coastal environmental gradients. We surveyed bacterioplankton diversity across the Columbia River coastal margin, USA, using amplicon pyrosequencing of 16S rRNA genes from 596 water samples collected from 2007 to 2010. Our results showed seasonal shifts and annual reassembly of bacterioplankton communities in the freshwater-influenced Columbia River, estuary, and plume, and identified indicator taxa, including species from freshwater SAR11, Oceanospirillales, and Flavobacteria groups, that characterize the changing seasonal conditions in these environments. In the river and estuary, Actinobacteria and Betaproteobacteria indicator taxa correlated strongly with seasonal fluctuations in particulate organic carbon (rho = -0.664) and residence time (rho=0.512), respectively. In contrast, seasonal change in communities was not detected in the coastal ocean and varied more with the spatial variability of environmental factors including temperature and dissolved oxygen. Indicator taxa of coastal ocean environments included SAR406 and SUP05 taxa from the deep ocean, and Prochlorococcus and SAR11 taxa from the upper water column. We found that in the Columbia River coastal margin, freshwater-influenced environments were consistent and predictable, whereas coastal ocean community variability was difficult to interpret due to complex physical conditions. This study moves beyond beta-diversity patterns to focus on the occurrence of specific taxa and lends insight into the potential ecological roles these taxa have in coastal ocean environments.	2013	10.1038/ismej.2013.79
De Monte, S; Soccodato, A; Alvain, S; dOvidio, F	Can we detect oceanic biodiversity hotspots from space?	ISME JOURNAL	Understanding the variability of marine biodiversity is a central issue in microbiology. Current observational programs are based on in situ studies, but their implementation at the global scale is particularly challenging, owing to the ocean extent, its temporal variability and the heterogeneity of the data sources on which compilations are built. Here, we explore the possibility of identifying phytoplanktonic biodiversity hotspots from satellite. We define a Shannon entropy index based on patchiness in ocean color bio-optical anomalies. This index provides a high resolution (1 degree) global coverage. It shows a relation to temperature and mid-latitude maxima in accordance with those previously evidenced in microbiological biodiversity model and observational studies. Regional maxima are in remarkable agreement with several known biodiversity hotspots for plankton organisms and even for higher levels of the marine trophic chain, as well as with some in situ planktonic biodiversity estimates (from Atlantic Meridional Transect cruise). These results encourage to explore marine biodiversity with a coordinated effort of the molecular, ecological and remote sensing communities.	2013	10.1038/ismej.2013.72
Sundh, I; Goettel, MS	Regulating biocontrol agents: a historical perspective and a critical examination comparing microbial and macrobial agents	BIOCONTROL	Ever since the inclusion of microbial biocontrol agents (MBCAs) within the regulatory frameworks initially designed for chemical pesticides, there has been awareness that these frameworks are not optimal for assessment and registration of new microbial biocontrol products. It is often claimed that the regulatory situation has contributed to a relatively slow uptake of microbial biocontrol in practice. In contrast to the MBCAs, non-indigenous invertebrate biocontrol agents (IBCAs) are regulated in many countries through quarantine and other biosecurity related legislation for prevention of introduction of alien organisms, whereas use of indigenous IBCAs are generally unregulated. In this study, we investigate what scientific support there is for performing evaluations of these two main groups of biocontrol agents (BCAs) within different frameworks. We compare potential risks of MBCAs and IBCAs, present a retrospective analysis of the development and implementation of the regulatory frameworks, and compare current requirements for MBCAs with those for other applications with microorganisms. One conclusion is that the ecological risks are of similar types between the two groups of BCAs, and that for both groups the environmental safety is most pertinently evaluated according to biological and ecological principles. The main difference between MBCAs and IBCAs with respect to human health is that the former may cause infectious disease. However, we found no evidence that this hazard is more serious for microorganisms for biocontrol than for microbes used in other types of applications, which generally have substantially lower regulatory demands than those for MBCAs. Several international initiatives have produced helpful guidelines and recommendations for simplified assessments and authorisations of BCAs. Still, we conclude that as long as MBCAs are evaluated within systems initially developed for chemicals, the risk for inappropriate emphasis of chemical hazards and therefore unnecessarily complicated assessments will be maintained. Therefore, this study supports the idea that development of new systems for the regulatory oversight of MBCAs, possibly a mutual framework covering all living BCAs, should be considered. Research issues that need to be further explored are to what extent utilisation of MBCAs actually results in increased exposure of non-targets to microorganisms, the biogeography and microbial ecology of representative MBCAs, and finally development of better methodology for determining potential human toxicity and pathogenicity of candidate MBCAs.	2013	10.1007/s10526-012-9498-3
Theodorakopoulos, N; Bachar, D; Christen, R; Alain, K; Chapon, V	Exploration of Deinococcus-Thermus molecular diversity by novel group-specific PCR primers	MICROBIOLOGYOPEN	The deeply branching Deinococcus-Thermus lineage is recognized as one of the most extremophilic phylum of bacteria. In previous studies, the presence of Deinococcus-related bacteria in the hot arid Tunisian desert of Tataouine was demonstrated through combined molecular and culture-based approaches. Similarly, Thermus-related bacteria have been detected in Tunisian geothermal springs. The present work was conducted to explore the molecular diversity within the Deinococcus-Thermus phylum in these extreme environments. A set of specific primers was designed in silico on the basis of 16S rRNA gene sequences, validated for the specific detection of reference strains, and used for the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification of metagenomic DNA retrieved from the Tataouine desert sand and Tunisian hot spring water samples. These analyses have revealed the presence of previously undescribed Deinococcus-Thermus bacterial sequences within these extreme environments. The primers designed in this study thus represent a powerful tool for the rapid detection of Deinococcus-Thermus in environmental samples and could also be applicable to clarify the biogeography of the Deinococcus-Thermus phylum.	2013	10.1002/mbo3.119
Ruff, SE; Arnds, J; Knittel, K; Amann, R; Wegener, G; Ramette, A; Boetius, A	Microbial Communities of Deep-Sea Methane Seeps at Hikurangi Continental Margin (New Zealand)	PLOS ONE	The methane-emitting cold seeps of Hikurangi margin (New Zealand) are among the few deep-sea chemosynthetic ecosystems of the Southern Hemisphere known to date. Here we compared the biogeochemistry and microbial communities of a variety of Hikurangi cold seep ecosystems. These included highly reduced seep habitats dominated by bacterial mats, partially oxidized habitats populated by heterotrophic ampharetid polychaetes and deeply oxidized habitats dominated by chemosynthetic frenulate tubeworms. The ampharetid habitats were characterized by a thick oxic sediment layer that hosted a diverse and biomass-rich community of aerobic methanotrophic Gammaproteobacteria. These bacteria consumed up to 25% of the emanating methane and clustered within three deep-branching groups named Marine Methylotrophic Group (MMG) 1-3. MMG1 and MMG2 methylotrophs belong to the order Methylococcales, whereas MMG3 methylotrophs are related to the Methylophaga. Organisms of the groups MMG1 and MMG3 are close relatives of chemosynthetic endosymbionts of marine invertebrates. The anoxic sediment layers of all investigated seeps were dominated by anaerobic methanotrophic archaea (ANME) of the ANME-2 clade and sulfate-reducing Deltaproteobacteria. Microbial community analysis using Automated Ribosomal Intergenic Spacer Analysis (ARISA) showed that the different seep habitats hosted distinct microbial communities, which were strongly influenced by the seep-associated fauna and the geographic location. Despite outstanding features of Hikurangi seep communities, the organisms responsible for key ecosystem functions were similar to those found at seeps worldwide. This suggests that similar types of biogeochemical settings select for similar community composition regardless of geographic distance. Because ampharetid polychaetes are widespread at cold seeps the role of aerobic methanotrophy may have been underestimated in seafloor methane budgets.	2013	10.1371/journal.pone.0072627
Tortosa, P; Dsouli, N; Gomard, Y; Ramasindrazana, B; Dick, CW; Goodman, SM	Evolutionary History of Indian Ocean Nycteribiid Bat Flies Mirroring the Ecology of Their Hosts	PLOS ONE	Bats and their parasites are increasingly investigated for their role in maintenance and transmission of potentially emerging pathogens. The islands of the western Indian Ocean hold nearly 50 bat species, mostly endemic and taxonomically well studied. However, investigation of associated viral, bacterial, and external parasites has lagged behind. In the case of their ectoparasites, more detailed information should provide insights into the evolutionary history of their hosts, as well as pathogen cycles in these wild animals. Here we investigate species of Nycteribiidae, a family of obligate hematophagous wingless flies parasitizing bats. Using morphological and molecular approaches, we describe fly species diversity sampled on Madagascar and the Comoros for two cave-roosting bat genera with contrasting ecologies: Miniopterus and Rousettus. Within the sampling area, 11 endemic species of insect-feeding Miniopterus occur, two of which are common to Madagascar and Comoros, while fruit-consuming Rousettus are represented by one species endemic to each of these zones. Morphological and molecular characterization of flies reveals that nycteribiids associated with Miniopterus bats comprise three species largely shared by most host species. Flies of M. griveaudi, one of the two bats found on Madagascar and certain islands in the Comoros, belong to the same taxon, which accords with continued over-water population exchange of this bat species and the lack of inter-island genetic structuring. Flies parasitizing Rousettus belong to two distinct species, each associated with a single host species, again in accordance with the distribution of each endemic bat species.	2013	10.1371/journal.pone.0075215
Ettoumi, B; Guesmi, A; Brusetti, L; Borin, S; Najjari, A; Boudabous, A; Cherif, A	Microdiversity of Deep-Sea Bacillales Isolated from Tyrrhenian Sea Sediments as Revealed by ARISA, 16S rRNA Gene Sequencing and BOX-PCR Fingerprinting	MICROBES AND ENVIRONMENTS	With respect to their terrestrial relatives, marine Bacillales have not been sufficiently investigated. In this report, the diversity of deep-sea Bacillales, isolated from seamount and non-seamount stations at 3,425 to 3,580 m depth in the Tyrrhenian Sea, was investigated using PCR fingerprinting and 16S rRNA sequence analysis. The isolate collection (n=120) was de-replicated by automated ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis (ARISA), and phylogenetic diversity was analyzed by 16S rRNA gene sequencing of representatives of each ARISA haplotype (n=37). Phylogenetic analysis of isolates showed their affiliation to six different genera of low G+C% content Gram-positive Bacillales: Bacillus, Staphylococcus, Exiguobacterium, Paenibacillus, Lysinibacillus and Terribacillus. Bacillus was the dominant genus represented by the species B. licheniformis, B. pumilus, B. subtilis, B. amyloliquefaciens and B. firmus, typically isolated from marine sediments. The most abundant species in the collection was B. licheniformis (n=85), which showed seven distinct ARISA haplotypes with haplotype H8 being the most dominant since it was identified by 63 isolates. The application of BOX-PCR fingerprinting to the B. licheniformis sub-collection allowed their separation into five distinct BOX genotypes, suggesting a high level of intraspecies diversity among marine B. licheniformis strains. This species also exhibited distinct strain distribution between seamount and non-seamount stations and was shown to be highly prevalent in non-seamount stations. This study revealed the great microdiversity of marine Bacillales and contributes to understanding the biogeographic distribution of marine bacteria in deep-sea sediments.	2013	10.1264/jsme2.ME13013
Lee, SM; Donaldson, GP; Mikulski, Z; Boyajian, S; Ley, K; Mazmanian, SK	Bacterial colonization factors control specificity and stability of the gut microbiota	NATURE	Mammals harbour a complex gut microbiome, comprising bacteria that confer immunological, metabolic and neurological benefits(1). Despite advances in sequence-based microbial profiling and myriad studies defining microbiome composition during health and disease, little is known about the molecular processes used by symbiotic bacteria to stably colonize the gastrointestinal tract. We sought to define how mammals assemble and maintain the Bacteroides, one of the most numerically prominent genera of the human microbiome. Here we find that, whereas the gut normally contains hundreds of bacterial species(2,3), germ-free mice mono-associated with a single Bacteroides species are resistant to colonization by the same, but not different, species. To identify bacterial mechanisms for species-specific saturable colonization, we devised an in vivo genetic screen and discovered a unique class of polysaccharide utilization loci that is conserved among intestinal Bacteroides. We named this genetic locus the commensal colonization factors (ccf). Deletion of the ccf genes in the model symbiont, Bacteroides fragilis, results in colonization defects in mice and reduced horizontal transmission. The ccf genes of B. fragilis are upregulated during gut colonization, preferentially at the colonic surface. When we visualize microbial biogeography within the colon, B. fragilis penetrates the colonic mucus and resides deep within crypt channels, whereas ccf mutants are defective in crypt association. Notably, the CCF system is required for B. fragilis colonization following microbiome disruption with Citrobacter rodentium infection or antibiotic treatment, suggesting that the niche within colonic crypts represents a reservoir for bacteria to maintain long-term colonization. These findings reveal that intestinal Bacteroides have evolved species-specific physical interactions with the host that mediate stable and resilient gut colonization, and the CCF system represents a novel molecular mechanism for symbiosis.	2013	10.1038/nature12447
Jacob, M; Soltwedel, T; Boetius, A; Ramette, A	Biogeography of Deep-Sea Benthic Bacteria at Regional Scale (LTER HAUSGARTEN, Fram Strait, Arctic)	PLOS ONE	Knowledge on spatial scales of the distribution of deep-sea life is still sparse, but highly relevant to the understanding of dispersal, habitat ranges and ecological processes. We examined regional spatial distribution patterns of the benthic bacterial community and covarying environmental parameters such as water depth, biomass and energy availability at the Arctic Long-Term Ecological Research (LTER) site HAUSGARTEN (Eastern Fram Strait). Samples from 13 stations were retrieved from a bathymetric (1,284-3,535 m water depth, 54 km in length) and a latitudinal transect (, 2,500 m water depth; 123 km in length). 454 massively parallel tag sequencing (MPTS) and automated ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis (ARISA) were combined to describe both abundant and rare types shaping the bacterial community. This spatial sampling scheme allowed detection of up to 99% of the estimated richness on phylum and class levels. At the resolution of operational taxonomic units (97% sequence identity; OTU3%) only 36% of the Chao1 estimated richness was recovered, indicating a high diversity, mostly due to rare types (62% of all OTU3%). Accordingly, a high turnover of the bacterial community was also observed between any two sampling stations (average replacement of 79% of OTU3%), yet no direct correlation with spatial distance was observed within the region. Bacterial community composition and structure differed significantly with increasing water depth along the bathymetric transect. The relative sequence abundance of Verrucomicrobia and Planctomycetes decreased significantly with water depth, and that of Deferribacteres increased. Energy availability, estimated from phytodetrital pigment concentrations in the sediments, partly explained the variation in community structure. Overall, this study indicates a high proportion of unique bacterial types on relatively small spatial scales (tens of kilometers), and supports the sampling design of the LTER site HAUSGARTEN to study bacterial community shifts in this rapidly changing area of the worlds oceans.	2013	10.1371/journal.pone.0072779
Rae, M; Folch, H; Moniz, MBJ; Wolff, CW; McCormack, GP; Rindi, F; Johnson, MP	Marine bioactivity in Irish waters	PHYTOCHEMISTRY REVIEWS	In 2009, the Marine Biodiscovery Laboratory was set-up at the Marine Institute with funds from the Marine Institute and the Beaufort Marine Biodiscovery Research Programme. The Marine Biodiscovery Laboratory has already processed over 130 marine specimens from coastal zones and from the Deep Sea (a parts per thousand currency sign3,000 m) within the Marine Irish Exclusive Economic Zone. Beaufort Biodiscovery funded taxonomists are involved in species identification and elucidation of evolutionary relationships. The project approach links sampling, systematics, extraction, microbial metagenomics and biomaterials. The Laboratory consists of approximately 56 m(2) including an extraction and a bioassay suite. The Laboratory samples and assesses marine biological diversity geared towards developing natural products for drug discovery, advanced material applications and bio-medical devices. Samples are tracked from sample log-into right through to extraction and bioassay using a customised Marine Biodiscovery Database. The extraction procedure is described along with the anti-bacterial bioassay selected for routine use. The Marine Biodiscovery Database manages the data generated and links the data collected by the projects stakeholders to existing biodiversity, genetic and chemical resources. The system uses in-house developed software tools to merge biodiscovery data collected with other MI resources and external databases and for the data mining and visualisation of biogeographical, genetic and chemical information aimed at the identification of potential biodiversity and bioactivity hotspots.	2013	10.1007/s11101-012-9227-7
Wilkins, D; van Sebille, E; Rintoul, SR; Lauro, FM; Cavicchioli, R	Advection shapes Southern Ocean microbial assemblages independent of distance and environment effects	NATURE COMMUNICATIONS	Although environmental selection and spatial separation have been shown to shape the distribution and abundance of marine microorganisms, the effects of advection (physical transport) have not been directly tested. Here we examine 25 samples covering all major water masses of the Southern Ocean to determine the effects of advection on microbial biogeography. Even when environmental factors and spatial separation are controlled for, there is a positive correlation between advection distance and taxonomic dissimilarity, indicating that an advection effect has a role in shaping marine microbial community composition. This effect is likely due to the advection of cells increasing the probability that upstream microorganisms will colonize downstream sites. Our study shows that in addition to distance and environmental selection, advection shapes the composition of marine microbial communities.	2013	10.1038/ncomms3457
Gaiero, JR; McCall, CA; Thompson, KA; Day, NJ; Best, AS; Dunfield, KE	INSIDE THE ROOT MICROBIOME: BACTERIAL ROOT ENDOPHYTES AND PLANT GROWTH PROMOTION	AMERICAN JOURNAL OF BOTANY	Bacterial root endophytes reside in a vast number of plant species as part of their root microbiome, with some being shown to positively influence plant growth. Endophyte community structure (species diversity: richness and relative abundances) within the plant is dynamic and is influenced by abiotic and biotic factors such as soil conditions, biogeography, plant species, microbe-microbe interactions and plant-microbe interactions, both at local and larger scales. Plant-growth-promoting bacterial endophytes (PGPBEs) have been identified, but the predictive success at positively influencing plant growth in field conditions has been limited. Concurrent to the development of modern molecular techniques, the goal of predicting an organisms ability to promote plant growth can perhaps be realized by more thorough examination of endophyte community dynamics. This paper reviews the drivers of endophyte community structure relating to plant growth promotion, the mechanisms of plant growth promotion, and the current and future use of molecular techniques to study these communities.	2013	10.3732/ajb.1200572
Hatosy, SM; Martiny, JBH; Sachdeva, R; Steele, J; Fuhrman, JA; Martiny, AC	Beta diversity of marine bacteria depends on temporal scale	ECOLOGY	Factors controlling the spatial distribution of bacterial diversity have been intensely studied, whereas less is known about temporal changes. To address this, we tested whether the mechanisms that underlie bacterial temporal -diversity vary across different scales in three marine microbial communities. While seasonal turnover was detected, at least 73% of the community variation occurred at intra-seasonal temporal scales, suggesting that episodic events are important in structuring marine microbial communities. In addition, turnover at different temporal scales appeared to be driven by different factors. Intra-seasonal turnover was significantly correlated to environmental variables such as phosphate and silicate concentrations, while seasonal and interannual turnover were related to nitrate concentration and temporal distance. We observed a strong link between the magnitude of environmental variation and bacterial -diversity in different communities. Analogous to spatial biogeography, we found different rates of community changes across temporal scales.	2013	10.1890/12-2125.1
Kermarrec, L; Bouchez, A; Rimet, F; Humbert, JF	First Evidence of the Existence of Semi-Cryptic Species and of a Phylogeographic Structure in the Gomphonema parvulum (Kutzing) Kutzing Complex (Bacillariophyta)	PROTIST	The Gomphonema parvulum complex includes species displaying considerable morphological variability and a wide geographical distribution. These characteristics make them difficult to identify by microscopy and raise the question of their taxonomic validity and of the possibility of biogeographical differentiation between them. In this context, we isolated 39 G. parvulum s.l. strains from rivers located in a tropical island (Mayotte) and in mainland Europe. By sequencing three DNA fragments (ITS, rbcL and cox1), four clades (A, B, C and D) were clearly identified, and an additional one (B) was distinguishable only on the rbcL sequence. The main four clades can be separated by their morphological criteria, in particular by the shape of the central area, but some overlaps were found between them. We therefore consider that the G. parvulum complex contains at least four semi-cryptic species corresponding to the four main clades. One of them (A) was found only on Mayotte, while two others (C and D) were found only in Europe. The last clade (B) contained strains from both Europe and Mayotte. Pyrosequencing data confirmed the geographical differences in the distribution of these species, suggesting that the G. parvulum complex displays biogeographic structure. (c) 2013 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.	2013	10.1016/j.protis.2013.07.005
Swanson, CA; Sliwinski, MK	One-dimensional TRFLP-SSCP is an effective DNA fingerprinting strategy for soil Archaea that is able to simultaneously differentiate broad taxonomic clades based on terminal fragment length polymorphisms and closely related sequences based on single stranded conformation polymorphisms	JOURNAL OF MICROBIOLOGICAL METHODS	DNA fingerprinting methods provide a means to rapidly compare microbial assemblages from environmental samples without the need to first cultivate species in the laboratory. The profiles generated by these techniques are able to identify statistically significant temporal and spatial patterns, correlations to environmental gradients, and biological variability to estimate the number of replicates for clone libraries or next generation sequencing (NGS) surveys. Here we describe an improved DNA fingerprinting technique that combines terminal restriction fragment length polymorphisms (TRFLP) and single stranded conformation polymorphisms (SSCP) so that both can be used to profile a sample simultaneously rather than requiring two sequential steps as in traditional two-dimensional (2-D) gel electrophoresis. For the purpose of profiling Archaeal 16S rRNA genes from soil, the dynamic range of this combined 1-D TRFLP-SSCP approach was superior to TRFLP and SSCP. 1-D TRFLP-SSCP was able to distinguish broad taxonomic clades with genetic distances greater than 10%, such as Euryarchaeota and the Thaumarchaeal clades g_Ca. Nitrososphaera (formerly 1.1b) and o_NRP-J (formerly 1.1c) better than SSCP. In addition, 1-0 TRFLP-SSCP was able to simultaneously distinguish closely related clades within a genus such as s_SCA1145 and s_SCA1170 better than TRFLP. We also tested the utility of 1-D TRFLP-SSCP fingerprinting of environmental assemblages by comparing this method to the generation of a 16S rRNA clone library of soil Archaea from a restored Tallgrass prairie. This study shows 1-D TRFLP-SSCP fingerprinting provides a rapid and phylogenetically informative screen of Archaeal 16S rRNA genes in soil samples. (C) 2013 Published by Elsevier B.V.	2013	10.1016/j.mimet.2013.07.003
Zhang, L; Gao, G; Tang, XM; Shao, KQ; Bayartu, S; Dai, JY	Bacterial community changes along a salinity gradient in a Chinese wetland	CANADIAN JOURNAL OF MICROBIOLOGY	We analyzed the composition and diversity of a bacterial community to determine its response to increasing salinity in the Xiangsi Lake wetland in the arid region of northwest China. We studied 12 sites, ranging from freshwater to saltwater habitats, using polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) and sequencing of the 16S rRNA genes of 5 selected samples. Cluster analysis and phylogenetic analysis revealed that the bacterial community changed significantly in response to increased salinity within the small-scale wetland (50.8 km(2)). Detailed analysis showed that (i) Betaproteobacteria can maintain balanced growth over a salinity range (from 0.34 to 6.86 g/L) through intergenus changes in community structure, followed by a sharp decrease in relative abundance (from 62.2% to 16.0%) when salinity reaches 26.18 g/L; (ii) salt-sensitive and halophobic taxa were progressively replaced by halotolerant and halophilic taxa with increasing salinity; (iii) bacterial diversity was lowest at intermediate salinity levels (6.86 g/L); and (iv) an increasing percentage of unclassified bacterial taxa were found with increasing salinity. This study has implications to improve understanding of bacterial community response to water salinization.	2013	10.1139/cjm-2013-0212
Nemergut, DR; Schmidt, SK; Fukami, T; ONeill, SP; Bilinski, TM; Stanish, LF; Knelman, JE; Darcy, JL; Lynch, RC; Wickey, P; Ferrenberg, S	Patterns and Processes of Microbial Community Assembly	MICROBIOLOGY AND MOLECULAR BIOLOGY REVIEWS	Recent research has expanded our understanding of microbial community assembly. However, the field of community ecology is inaccessible to many microbial ecologists because of inconsistent and often confusing terminology as well as unnecessarily polarizing debates. Thus, we review recent literature on microbial community assembly, using the framework of Vellend (Q. Rev. Biol. 85:183-206, 2010) in an effort to synthesize and unify these contributions. We begin by discussing patterns in microbial biogeography and then describe four basic processes (diversification, dispersal, selection, and drift) that contribute to community assembly. We also discuss different combinations of these processes and where and when they may be most important for shaping microbial communities. The spatial and temporal scales of microbial community assembly are also discussed in relation to assembly processes. Throughout this review paper, we highlight differences between microbes and macroorganisms and generate hypotheses describing how these differences may be important for community assembly. We end by discussing the implications of microbial assembly processes for ecosystem function and biodiversity.	2013	10.1128/MMBR.00051-12
Yao, HY; Campbell, CD; Chapman, SJ; Freitag, TE; Nicol, GW; Singh, BK	Multi-factorial drivers of ammonia oxidizer communities: evidence from a national soil survey	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	The factors driving the abundance and community composition of soil microbial communities provide fundamental knowledge on the maintenance of biodiversity and the ecosystem services they underpin. Several studies have suggested that microbial communities are spatially organized, including functional groups and much of the observed variation is explained by geographical location or soil pH. Soil ammonia-oxidizing archaea (AOA) and bacteria (AOB) are excellent models for such study due to their functional, agronomic and environmental importance and their relative ease of characterization. To identify the dominant drivers of different ammonia oxidizers, we used samples (n=713) from the National Soil Inventory of Scotland (NSIS). Our results indicate that 40-45% of the variance in community compositions can be explained by 71 environmental variables. Soil pH and substrate, which have been regarded as the two main drivers, only explained 13-16% of the total variance. We provide strong evidence of multi-factorial drivers (land use, soil type, climate and N deposition) of ammonia-oxidizing communities, all of which play a significant role in the creation of specific niches that are occupied by unique phylotypes. For example, one AOA phylotype was strongly linked to woodland/semi-natural grassland, rainfall and N deposition. Some soil typologies, namely regosols, have a novel AOA community composition indicating typology as one of the factors which defines this ecological niche. AOA abundance was high and strongly linked the rate of potential nitrification in the highly acidic soils supporting the argument that AOA are main ammonia oxidizers in acidic soils. However, for AOB, soil pH and substrate (ammonia) were the main drivers for abundance and community composition. These results highlight the importance of multiple drivers of microbial niche formation and their impact on microbial biogeography that have significant consequences for ecosystem functioning.	2013	10.1111/1462-2920.12141
Chong, CW; Goh, YS; Convey, P; Pearce, D; Tan, IKP	Spatial pattern in Antarctica: what can we learn from Antarctic bacterial isolates?	EXTREMOPHILES	A range of small- to moderate-scale studies of patterns in bacterial biodiversity have been conducted in Antarctica over the last two decades, most suggesting strong correlations between the described bacterial communities and elements of local environmental heterogeneity. However, very few of these studies have advanced interpretations in terms of spatially associated patterns, despite increasing evidence of patterns in bacterial biogeography globally. This is likely to be a consequence of restricted sampling coverage, with most studies to date focusing only on a few localities within a specific Antarctic region. Clearly, there is now a need for synthesis over a much larger spatial to consolidate the available data. In this study, we collated Antarctic bacterial culture identities based on the 16S rRNA gene information available in the literature and the GenBank database (n > 2,000 sequences). In contrast to some recent evidence for a distinct Antarctic microbiome, our phylogenetic comparisons show that a majority (similar to 75 %) of Antarctic bacterial isolates were highly similar (a parts per thousand yen99 % sequence similarity) to those retrieved from tropical and temperate regions, suggesting widespread distribution of eurythermal mesophiles in Antarctic environments. However, across different Antarctic regions, the dominant bacterial genera exhibit some spatially distinct diversity patterns analogous to those recently proposed for Antarctic terrestrial macroorganisms. Taken together, our results highlight the threat of cross-regional homogenisation in Antarctic biodiversity, and the imperative to include microbiota within the framework of biosecurity measures for Antarctica.	2013	10.1007/s00792-013-0555-3
Locey, KJ; White, EP	How species richness and total abundance constrain the distribution of abundance	ECOLOGY LETTERS	The species abundance distribution (SAD) is one of the most intensively studied distributions in ecology and its hollow-curve shape is one of ecologys most general patterns. We examine the SAD in the context of all possible forms having the same richness (S) and total abundance (N), i.e. the feasible set. We find that feasible sets are dominated by similarly shaped hollow curves, most of which are highly correlated with empirical SADs (most R-2 values > 75%), revealing a strong influence of N and S on the form of the SAD and an a priori explanation for the ubiquitous hollow curve. Empirical SADs are often more hollow and less variable than the majority of the feasible set, revealing exceptional unevenness and relatively low natural variability among ecological communities. We discuss the importance of the feasible set in understanding how general constraints determine observable variation and influence the forms of predicted and empirical patterns.	2013	10.1111/ele.12154
Ladau, J; Sharpton, TJ; Finucane, MM; Jospin, G; Kembel, SW; ODwyer, J; Koeppel, AF; Green, JL; Pollard, KS	Global marine bacterial diversity peaks at high latitudes in winter	ISME JOURNAL	Genomic approaches to characterizing bacterial communities are revealing significant differences in diversity and composition between environments. But bacterial distributions have not been mapped at a global scale. Although current community surveys are way too sparse to map global diversity patterns directly, there is now sufficient data to fit accurate models of how bacterial distributions vary across different environments and to make global scale maps from these models. We apply this approach to map the global distributions of bacteria in marine surface waters. Our spatially and temporally explicit predictions suggest that bacterial diversity peaks in temperate latitudes across the worlds oceans. These global peaks are seasonal, occurring 6 months apart in the two hemispheres, in the boreal and austral winters. This pattern is quite different from the tropical, seasonally consistent diversity patterns observed for most macroorganisms. However, like other marine organisms, surface water bacteria are particularly diverse in regions of high human environmental impacts on the oceans. Our maps provide the first picture of bacterial distributions at a global scale and suggest important differences between the diversity patterns of bacteria compared with other organisms.	2013	10.1038/ismej.2013.37
Hingamp, P; Grimsley, N; Acinas, SG; Clerissi, C; Subirana, L; Poulain, J; Ferrera, I; Sarmento, H; Villar, E; Lima-Mendez, G; Faust, K; Sunagawa, S; Claverie, JM; Moreau, H; Desdevises, Y; Bork, P; Raes, J; de Vargas, C; Karsenti, E; Kandels-Lewis, S; Jaillon, O; Not, F; Pesant, S; Wincker, P; Ogata, H	Exploring nucleo-cytoplasmic large DNA viruses in Tara Oceans microbial metagenomes	ISME JOURNAL	Nucleo-cytoplasmic large DNA viruses (NCLDVs) constitute a group of eukaryotic viruses that can have crucial ecological roles in the sea by accelerating the turnover of their unicellular hosts or by causing diseases in animals. To better characterize the diversity, abundance and biogeography of marine NCLDVs, we analyzed 17 metagenomes derived from microbial samples (0.2-1.6 mu m size range) collected during the Tara Oceans Expedition. The sample set includes ecosystems under-represented in previous studies, such as the Arabian Sea oxygen minimum zone (OMZ) and Indian Ocean lagoons. By combining computationally derived relative abundance and direct prokaryote cell counts, the abundance of NCLDVs was found to be in the order of 10(4)-10(5) genomes ml(-1) for the samples from the photic zone and 10(2)-10(3) genomes ml(-1) for the OMZ. The Megaviridae and Phycodnaviridae dominated the NCLDV populations in the metagenomes, although most of the reads classified in these families showed large divergence from known viral genomes. Our taxon co-occurrence analysis revealed a potential association between viruses of the Megaviridae family and eukaryotes related to oomycetes. In support of this predicted association, we identified six cases of lateral gene transfer between Megaviridae and oomycetes. Our results suggest that marine NCLDVs probably outnumber eukaryotic organisms in the photic layer (per given water mass) and that metagenomic sequence analyses promise to shed new light on the biodiversity of marine viruses and their interactions with potential hosts.	2013	10.1038/ismej.2013.59
Brum, JR; Schenck, RO; Sullivan, MB	Global morphological analysis of marine viruses shows minimal regional variation and dominance of non-tailed viruses	ISME JOURNAL	Viruses influence oceanic ecosystems by causing mortality of microorganisms, altering nutrient and organic matter flux via lysis and auxiliary metabolic gene expression and changing the trajectory of microbial evolution through horizontal gene transfer. Limited host range and differing genetic potential of individual virus types mean that investigations into the types of viruses that exist in the ocean and their spatial distribution throughout the worlds oceans are critical to understanding the global impacts of marine viruses. Here we evaluate viral morphological characteristics (morphotype, capsid diameter and tail length) using a quantitative transmission electron microscopy (qTEM) method across six of the worlds oceans and seas sampled through the Tara Oceans Expedition. Extensive experimental validation of the qTEM method shows that neither sample preservation nor preparation significantly alters natural viral morphological characteristics. The global sampling analysis demonstrated that morphological characteristics did not vary consistently with depth (surface versus deep chlorophyll maximum waters) or oceanic region. Instead, temperature, salinity and oxygen concentration, but not chlorophyll a concentration, were more explanatory in evaluating differences in viral assemblage morphological characteristics. Surprisingly, given that the majority of cultivated bacterial viruses are tailed, non-tailed viruses appear to numerically dominate the upper oceans as they comprised 51-92% of the viral particles observed. Together, these results document global marine viral morphological characteristics, show that their minimal variability is more explained by environmental conditions than geography and suggest that non-tailed viruses might represent the most ecologically important targets for future research.	2013	10.1038/ismej.2013.67
Hu, HW; Zhang, LM; Dai, Y; Di, HJ; He, JZ	pH-dependent distribution of soil ammonia oxidizers across a large geographical scale as revealed by high-throughput pyrosequencing	JOURNAL OF SOILS AND SEDIMENTS	Ammonia-oxidizing archaea (AOA) and bacteria (AOB) are ubiquitous and important for nitrogen transformations in terrestrial ecosystems. However, the distribution patterns of these microorganisms as affected by the terrestrial environments across a large geographical scale are not well understood. This study was designed to gain insights into the ecological characteristics of AOA and AOB in 65 soils, collected from a wide range of soil and ecosystem types. Barcoded pyrosequencing in combination with quantitative PCR was employed to characterize the relative abundance, diversity, and community composition of archaeal 16S rRNA gene, and AOA and AOB amoA genes in 65 soil samples. The operational taxonomic unit richness and Shannon diversity of Thaumarchaeota, AOA, and AOB were highly variable among different soils, but their variations were best explained by soil pH. Soil pH was strongly correlated with the overall community composition of ammonia oxidizers, as measured by the pairwise Bray-Curtis dissimilarity across all sites. These findings were further corroborated by the evident pH-dependent distribution patterns of four thaumarchaeal groups (I.1a-associated, I.1b, I.1c, and I.1c-associated) and four AOB clusters (2, 3a.1, 10, and 12). The ratios of AOA to AOB amoA gene copy numbers significantly decreased with increasing pH, suggesting a competitive advantage of AOA over AOB in acidic soils. These results suggest that the distribution of ammonia oxidizers across large-scale biogeographical settings can be largely predicted along the soil pH gradient, thus providing important indications for the ecological characteristics of AOA and AOB in different soils.	2013	10.1007/s11368-013-0726-y
Hu, HW; Zhang, LM; Yuan, CL; He, JZ	Contrasting Euryarchaeota communities between upland and paddy soils exhibited similar pH-impacted biogeographic patterns	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	Euryarchaeota, as an important and ubiquitous Archaea phylum, contributes substantially to global energy cycling. However, there is a considerable lack of knowledge regarding their biogeographic patterns in terrestrial ecosystems. Here barcoded pyrosequencing was employed to compare the relative abundance, diversity and community composition of Euryarchaeota in 92 soil samples, collected from a variety of ecosystem types. A total of 96,534 euryarchaeal sequences were classified from pyrosequencing of the archaeal 16S rRNA gene, comprising 22.5% of the total archaeal sequences detected. Paddy soils harbored contrasting Euryarchaeota communities from upland soils (including cropland, grassland, forest, and tea orchard soil), at all taxonomic resolutions from phylum to genus level. Within upland soils, the relative abundance of Euryarchaeota in Archaea, and Euryarchaeota operational taxonomic unit (OTU) richness are significantly influenced by soil pH and H2O%. Similar observations held true for the beta diversity patterns, with soil pH and H2O% best explaining the variance of the pairwise Bray-Curtis dissimilarity. By comparison, within paddy soils, the Euryarchaeota abundance in Archaea, and the alpha and beta diversity patterns, could be best predicted along the gradients of soil pH and NH4+-N. These findings were further corroborated by the evident pH-, H2O%- or NH4+-N-associated distributions of several major Euryarchaeota orders. Taken together, our results emphasized the significant importance of soil pH as the prevailing environmental factor in shaping the terrestrial Euryarchaeota. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2013	10.1016/j.soilbio.2013.04.003
Lanzen, A; Simachew, A; Gessesse, A; Chmolowska, D; Jonassen, I; Ovreas, L	Surprising Prokaryotic and Eukaryotic Diversity, Community Structure and Biogeography of Ethiopian Soda Lakes	PLOS ONE	Soda lakes are intriguing ecosystems harboring extremely productive microbial communities in spite of their extreme environmental conditions. This makes them valuable model systems for studying the connection between community structure and abiotic parameters such as pH and salinity. For the first time, we apply high-throughput sequencing to accurately estimate phylogenetic richness and composition in five soda lakes, located in the Ethiopian Rift Valley. The lakes were selected for their contrasting pH, salinities and stratification and several depths or spatial positions were covered in each lake. DNA was extracted and analyzed from all lakes at various depths and RNA extracted from two of the lakes, analyzed using both amplicon- and shotgun sequencing. We reveal a surprisingly high biodiversity in all of the studied lakes, similar to that of freshwater lakes. Interestingly, diversity appeared uncorrelated or positively correlated to pH and salinity, with the most extreme lakes showing the highest richness. Together, pH, dissolved oxygen, sodium- and potassium concentration explained approximately 30% of the compositional variation between samples. A diversity of prokaryotic and eukaryotic taxa could be identified, including several putatively involved in carbon-, sulfur- or nitrogen cycling. Key processes like methane oxidation, ammonia oxidation and nitrifier denitrification were also confirmed by mRNA transcript analyses.	2013	10.1371/journal.pone.0072577
Di Giuseppe, G; Barbieri, M; Vallesi, A; Luporini, P; Dini, F	Phylogeographical pattern of Euplotes nobilii, a protist ciliate with a bipolar biogeographical distribution	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	Nuclear (18S and ITS) and mitochondrial (16S) ribosomal RNA gene sequences were determined from genetically distinct wild-type strains of Antarctic (nine strains), Fuegian (four strains), Greenland (nine strains) and Svalbard (three strains) populations of the marine ciliate, Euplotes nobilii, and analysed for their nucleotide polymorphisms. A close genetic homogeneity was found within and between the Antarctic and Fuegian populations, while more significant levels of genetic differentiation were detected within and between the two Arctic populations, as well as between these populations and the Antarctic/Fuegian ones. The phylogeographical pattern that was derived from these data indicates that gene flow is not limited among Arctic populations; it equally connects the Arctic and Antarctic populations either directly, or through the Fuegian population. This indication reinforces previous evidence from laboratory assays of mating interactions between some of the strains analysed in this work that Southern and Northern polar populations of E. nobilii belong to a unique, panmictic population that substantially share the same gene pool.	2013	10.1111/mec.12363
Franzetti, A; Tatangelo, V; Gandolfi, I; Bertolini, V; Bestetti, G; Diolaiuti, G; DAgata, C; Mihalcea, C; Smiraglia, C; Ambrosini, R	Bacterial community structure on two alpine debris-covered glaciers and biogeography of Polaromonas phylotypes	ISME JOURNAL	High-elevation cold environments are considered ideal places to test hypotheses about mechanisms of bacterial colonization and succession, and about bacterial biogeography. Debris-covered glaciers (glaciers whose ablation area is mainly covered by a continuous layer of rock debris fallen from the surrounding mountains) have never been investigated in this respect so far. We used the Illumina technology to analyse the V5 and V6 hypervariable regions of the bacterial 16S rRNA gene amplified from 38 samples collected in July and September 2009 at different distances from the terminus on two debris-covered glaciers (Miage and Belvedere-Italian Alps). Heterotrophic taxa-dominated communities and bacterial community structure changed according to ice ablation rate, organic carbon content of the debris and distance from the glacier terminus. Bacterial communities therefore change during downwards debris transport, and organic carbon of these recently exposed substrates is probably provided more by allochthonous deposition of organic matter than by primary production by autotrophic organisms. We also investigated whether phylotypes of the genus Polaromonas, which is ubiquitous in cold environments, do present a biogeographical distribution by analysing the sequences retrieved in this study together with others available in the literature. We found that the genetic distance among phylotypes increased with geographic distance; however, more focused analyses using discrete distance classes revealed that both sequences collected at sites <100 km and at sites 9400-13 500 km to each other were more similar than those collected at other distance classes. Evidences of biogeographic distribution of Polaromonas phylotypes were therefore contrasting.	2013	10.1038/ismej.2013.48
Shade, A; Caporaso, JG; Handelsman, J; Knight, R; Fierer, N	A meta-analysis of changes in bacterial and archaeal communities with time	ISME JOURNAL	Ecologists have long studied the temporal dynamics of plant and animal communities with much less attention paid to the temporal dynamics exhibited by microbial communities. As a result, we do not know if overarching temporal trends exist for microbial communities or if changes in microbial communities are generally predictable with time. Using microbial time series assessed via high-throughput sequencing, we conducted a meta-analysis of temporal dynamics in microbial communities, including 76 sites representing air, aquatic, soil, brewery wastewater treatment, human- and plant-associated microbial biomes. We found that temporal variability in both within- and between-community diversity was consistent among microbial communities from similar environments. Community structure changed systematically with time in less than half of the cases, and the highest rates of change were observed within ranges of 1 day to 1 month for all communities examined. Microbial communities exhibited species-time relationships (STRs), which describe the accumulation of new taxa to a community, similar to those observed previously for plant and animal communities, suggesting that STRs are remarkably consistent across a broad range of taxa. These results highlight that a continued integration of microbial ecology into the broader field of ecology will provide new insight into the temporal patterns of microbial and macro-bial communities alike.	2013	10.1038/ismej.2013.54
Winter, C; Matthews, B; Suttle, CA	Effects of environmental variation and spatial distance on Bacteria, Archaea and viruses in sub-polar and arctic waters	ISME JOURNAL	We investigated the influence of environmental parameters and spatial distance on bacterial, archaeal and viral community composition from 13 sites along a 3200-km long voyage from Halifax to Kugluktuk (Canada) through the Labrador Sea, Baffin Bay and the Arctic Archipelago. Variation partitioning was used to disentangle the effects of environmental parameters, spatial distance and spatially correlated environmental parameters on prokaryotic and viral communities. Viral and prokaryotic community composition were related in the Labrador Sea, but were independent of each other in Baffin Bay and the Arctic Archipelago. In oceans, the dominant dispersal mechanism for prokaryotes and viruses is the movement of water masses, thus, dispersal for both groups is passive and similar. Nevertheless, spatial distance explained 7-19% of the variation in viral community composition in the Arctic Archipelago, but was not a significant predictor of bacterial or archaeal community composition in either sampling area, suggesting a decoupling of the processes regulating community composition within these taxonomic groups. According to the meta-community theory, patterns in bacterial and archaeal community composition suggest a role for species sorting, while patterns of virus community composition are consistent with species sorting in the Labrador Sea and suggest a potential role of mass effects in the Arctic Archipelago. Given that, a specific prokaryotic taxon may be infected by multiple viruses with high reproductive potential, our results suggest that viral community composition was subject to a high turnover relative to prokaryotic community composition in the Arctic Archipelago.	2013	10.1038/ismej.2013.56
Rodriguez-Martinez, R; Rocap, G; Salazar, G; Massana, R	Biogeography of the uncultured marine picoeukaryote MAST-4: temperature-driven distribution patterns	ISME JOURNAL	The MAST-4 (marine stramenopile group 4) is a widespread uncultured picoeukaryote that makes up an important fraction of marine heterotrophic flagellates. This group has low genetic divergence and is composed of a small number of putative species. We combined ARISA (automated ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis) and ITS (Internal Transcribed Spacer) clone libraries to study the biogeography of this marine protist, examining both spatial and temporal trends in MAST-4 assemblages and associated environmental factors. The most represented MAST-4 clades appeared adapted to different temperature ranges, and their distributions did not suggest clear geographical barriers for dispersal. Distant samples sharing the same temperature had very similar assemblages, especially in cold temperatures, where only one clade, E1, dominated. The most highly represented clades, A and E1, showed very little differentiation between populations from distant geographical regions. Within a single site, temporal variation also followed patterns governed by temperature. Our results contribute to the general discussion on microbial biogeography by showing strong environmental selection for some picoeukaryotes in the marine environment.	2013	10.1038/ismej.2013.53
Lauber, CL; Ramirez, KS; Aanderud, Z; Lennon, J; Fierer, N	Temporal variability in soil microbial communities across land-use types	ISME JOURNAL	Although numerous studies have investigated changes in soil microbial communities across space, questions about the temporal variability in these communities and how this variability compares across soils have received far less attention. We collected soils on a monthly basis (May to November) from replicated plots representing three land-use types (conventional and reduced-input row crop agricultural plots and early successional grasslands) maintained at a research site in Michigan, USA. Using barcoded pyrosequencing of the 16S rRNA gene, we found that the agricultural and early successional land uses harbored unique soil bacterial communities that exhibited distinct temporal patterns. alpha-Diversity, the numbers of taxa or lineages, was significantly influenced by the sampling month with the temporal variability in alpha-diversity exceeding the variability between land-use types. In contrast, differences in community composition across land-use types were reasonably constant across the 7-month period, suggesting that the time of sampling is less important when assessing beta-diversity patterns. Communities in the agricultural soils were most variable over time and the changes were significantly correlated with soil moisture and temperature. Temporal shifts in bacterial community composition within the successional grassland plots were less predictable and are likely a product of complex interactions between the soil environment and the more diverse plant community. Temporal variability needs to be carefully assessed when comparing microbial diversity across soil types and the temporal patterns in microbial community structure can not necessarily be generalized across land uses, even if those soils are exposed to the same climatic conditions.	2013	10.1038/ismej.2013.50
Pita, L; Lopez-Legentil, S; Erwin, PM	Biogeography and Host Fidelity of Bacterial Communities in Ircinia spp. from the Bahamas	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Research on sponge microbial assemblages has revealed different trends in the geographic variability and specificity of bacterial symbionts. Here, we combined replicated terminal-restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) and clone library analyses of 16S rRNA gene sequences to investigate the biogeographic and host-specific structure of bacterial communities in two congeneric and sympatric sponges: Ircinia strobilina, two color morphs of Ircinia felix and ambient seawater. Samples were collected from five islands of the Bahamas separated by 80 to 400 km. T-RFLP profiles revealed significant differences in bacterial community structure among sponge hosts and ambient bacterioplankton. Pairwise statistical comparisons of clone libraries confirmed the specificity of the bacterial assemblages to each host species and differentiated symbiont communities between color morphs of I. felix. Overall, differences in bacterial communities within each host species and morph were unrelated to location. Our results show a high degree of symbiont fidelity to host sponge across a spatial scale of up to 400 km, suggesting that host-specific rather than biogeographic factors play a primary role in structuring and maintaining sponge-bacteria relationships in Ircinia species from the Bahamas.	2013	10.1007/s00248-013-0215-2
Levy, R; Borenstein, E	Metabolic modeling of species interaction in the human microbiome elucidates community-level assembly rules	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	The human microbiome plays a key role in human health and is associated with numerous diseases. Metagenomic-based studies are now generating valuable information about the composition of the microbiome in health and in disease, demonstrating non-neutral assembly processes and complex co-occurrence patterns. However, the underlying ecological forces that structure the microbiome are still unclear. Specifically, compositional studies alone with no information about mechanisms of interaction, potential competition, or syntrophy, cannot clearly distinguish habitat-filtering and species assortment assembly processes. To address this challenge, we introduce a computational framework, integrating metagenomic-based compositional data with genome-scale metabolic modeling of species interaction. We use in silico metabolic network models to predict levels of competition and complementarity among 154 microbiome species and compare predicted interaction measures to species co-occurrence. Applying this approach to two large-scale datasets describing the composition of the gut microbiome, we find that species tend to co-occur across individuals more frequently with species with which they strongly compete, suggesting that microbiome assembly is dominated by habitat filtering. Moreover, species partners and excluders exhibit distinct metabolic interaction levels. Importantly, we show that these trends cannot be explained by phylogeny alone and hold across multiple taxonomic levels. Interestingly, controlling for host health does not change the observed patterns, indicating that the axes along which species are filtered are not fully defined by macroecological host states. The approach presented here lays the foundation for a reverse-ecology framework for addressing key questions concerning the assembly of host-associated communities and for informing clinical efforts to manipulate the microbiome.	2013	10.1073/pnas.1300926110
Pasternak, Z; Al-Ashhab, A; Gatica, J; Gafny, R; Avraham, S; Minz, D; Gillor, O; Jurkevitch, E	Spatial and Temporal Biogeography of Soil Microbial Communities in Arid and Semiarid Regions	PLOS ONE	Microbial communities in soils may change in accordance with distance, season, climate, soil texture and other environmental parameters. Microbial diversity patterns have been extensively surveyed in temperate regions, but few such studies attempted to address them with respect to spatial and temporal scales and their correlations to environmental factors, especially in arid ecosystems. In order to fill this gap on a regional scale, the molecular fingerprints and abundance of three taxonomic groups - Bacteria, alpha-Proteobacteria and Actinobacteria - were sampled from soils 0.5-100 km apart in arid, semi-arid, dry Mediterranean and shoreline Mediterranean regions in Israel. Additionally, on a local scale, the molecular fingerprints of three taxonomic groups - Bacteria, Archaea and Fungi - were sampled from soils 1 cm-500 m apart in the semi-arid region, in both summer and winter. Fingerprints of the Bacteria differentiated between all regions (P<0.02), while those of the a-Proteobacteria differentiated between some of the regions (0.01<P<0.09), and actinobacterial fingerprints were similar among all regions (P>0.05). Locally, fingerprints of archaea and fungi did not display distance-decay relationships (P>0.13), that is, the dissimilarity between communities did not increase with geographic distance. Neither was this phenomenon evident in bacterial samples in summer (P>0.24); in winter, however, differences between bacterial communities significantly increased as the geographic distances between them grew (P<0.01). Microbial community structures, as well as microbial abundance, were both significantly correlated to precipitation and soil characteristics: texture, organic matter and water content (R-2>0.60, P<0.01). We conclude that on the whole, microbial biogeography in arid and semi-arid soils in Israel is determined more by specific environmental factors than geographic distances and spatial distribution patterns.	2013	10.1371/journal.pone.0069705
Macalady, JL; Hamilton, TL; Grettenberger, CL; Jones, DS; Tsao, LE; Burgos, WD	Energy, ecology and the distribution of microbial life	PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY B-BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES	Mechanisms that govern the coexistence of multiple biological species have been studied intensively by ecologists since the turn of the nineteenth century. Microbial ecologists in the meantime have faced many fundamental challenges, such as the lack of an ecologically coherent species definition, lack of adequate methods for evaluating population sizes and community composition in nature, and enormous taxonomic and functional diversity. The accessibility of powerful, culture-independent molecular microbiology methods offers an opportunity to close the gap between microbial science and the main stream of ecological theory, with the promise of new insights and tools needed to meet the grand challenges humans face as planetary engineers and galactic explorers. We focus specifically on resources related to energy metabolism because of their direct links to elemental cycling in the Earths history, engineering applications and astrobiology. To what extent does the availability of energy resources structure microbial communities in nature? Our recent work on sulfur-and iron-oxidizing autotrophs suggests that apparently subtle variations in the concentration ratios of external electron donors and acceptors select for different microbial populations. We show that quantitative knowledge of microbial energy niches (population- specific patterns of energy resource use) can be used to predict variations in the abundance of specific taxa in microbial communities. Furthermore, we propose that resource ratio theory applied to micro-organisms will provide a useful framework for identifying how environmental communities are organized in space and time.	2013	10.1098/rstb.2012.0383
Swan, BK; Tupper, B; Sczyrba, A; Lauro, FM; Martinez-Garcia, M; Gonzalez, JM; Luo, HW; Wright, JJ; Landry, ZC; Hanson, NW; Thompson, BP; Poulton, NJ; Schwientek, P; Acinas, SG; Giovannoni, SJ; Moran, MA; Hallam, SJ; Cavicchioli, R; Woyke, T; Stepanauskas, R	Prevalent genome streamlining and latitudinal divergence of planktonic bacteria in the surface ocean	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	Planktonic bacteria dominate surface ocean biomass and influence global biogeochemical processes, but remain poorly characterized owing to difficulties in cultivation. Using large-scale single cell genomics, we obtained insight into the genome content and biogeography of many bacterial lineages inhabiting the surface ocean. We found that, compared with existing cultures, natural bacterioplankton have smaller genomes, fewer gene duplications, and are depleted in guanine and cytosine, noncoding nucleotides, and genes encoding transcription, signal transduction, and noncytoplasmic proteins. These findings provide strong evidence that genome streamlining and oligotrophy are prevalent features among diverse, free-living bacterioplankton, whereas existing laboratory cultures consist primarily of copiotrophs. The apparent ubiquity of metabolic specialization and mixotrophy, as predicted from single cell genomes, also may contribute to the difficulty in bacterioplankton cultivation. Using metagenome fragment recruitment against single cell genomes, we show that the global distribution of surface ocean bacterioplankton correlates with temperature and latitude and is not limited by dispersal at the time scales required for nucleotide substitution to exceed the current operational definition of bacterial species. Single cell genomes with highly similar small subunit rRNA gene sequences exhibited significant genomic and biogeographic variability, highlighting challenges in the interpretation of individual gene surveys and metagenome assemblies in environmental microbiology. Our study demonstrates the utility of single cell genomics for gaining an improved understanding of the composition and dynamics of natural microbial assemblages.	2013	10.1073/pnas.1304246110
Stock, A; Edgcomb, V; Orsi, W; Filker, S; Breiner, HW; Yakimov, MM; Stoeck, T	Evidence for isolated evolution of deep-sea ciliate communities through geological separation and environmental selection	BMC MICROBIOLOGY	Background: Deep hypersaline anoxic basins (DHABs) are isolated habitats at the bottom of the eastern Mediterranean Sea, which originate from the ancient dissolution of Messinian evaporites. The different basins have recruited their original biota from the same source, but their geological evolution eventually constituted sharp environmental barriers, restricting genetic exchange between the individual basins. Therefore, DHABs are unique model systems to assess the effect of geological events and environmental conditions on the evolution and diversification of protistan plankton. Here, we examine evidence for isolated evolution of unicellular eukaryote protistan plankton communities driven by geological separation and environmental selection. We specifically focused on ciliated protists as a major component of protistan DHAB plankton by pyrosequencing the hypervariable V4 fragment of the small subunit ribosomal RNA. Geospatial distributions and responses of marine ciliates to differential hydrochemistries suggest strong physical and chemical barriers to dispersal that influence the evolution of this plankton group. Results: Ciliate communities in the brines of four investigated DHABs are distinctively different from ciliate communities in the interfaces (haloclines) immediately above the brines. While the interface ciliate communities from different sites are relatively similar to each other, the brine ciliate communities are significantly different between sites. We found no distance-decay relationship, and canonical correspondence analyses identified oxygen and sodium as most important hydrochemical parameters explaining the partitioning of diversity between interface and brine ciliate communities. However, none of the analyzed hydrochemical parameters explained the significant differences between brine ciliate communities in different basins. Conclusions: Our data indicate a frequent genetic exchange in the deep-sea water above the brines. The isolated island character of the different brines, that resulted from geological events and contemporary environmental conditions, create selective pressures driving evolutionary processes, and with time, lead to speciation and shape protistan community composition. We conclude that community assembly in DHABs is a mixture of isolated evolution (as evidenced by small changes in V4 primary structure in some taxa) and species sorting (as indicated by the regional absence/presence of individual taxon groups on high levels in taxonomic hierarchy).	2013	10.1186/1471-2180-13-150
Lanconi, MD; Taketani, RG; Kavamura, VN; de Melo, IS	Microbial community biogeographic patterns in the rhizosphere of two Brazilian semi-arid leguminous trees	WORLD JOURNAL OF MICROBIOLOGY & BIOTECHNOLOGY	Arid environments are regular and well distributed over all continents and display drought characteristics whether full-time or seasonal. This study aims to characterize how the microbial communities of the rhizosphere of two leguminous trees from the Brazilian semi-arid biome the Caatinga are geographically and seasonally shaped, as well as the factors driving this variation. With that purpose, the soil rhizosphere from two leguminous trees (Mimosa tenuiflora and Piptadenia stipulacea (Benth.) Ducke) were sampled in two different seasons: rainy and drought at five different sites. Assessment of bacterial and archaeal communities occurred by T-RFLP analysis of 16S rRNA and archaeal amoA genes. By these means, it was observed that the seasons (wet and dry periods) are the factors that most influence the composition of the microbial community from both analyzed plants, except for the results obtained from the CCA applied to Archaeas. Furthermore, soil physical-chemical factors also had a significant influence on the community and indicated a geographical pattern of the bacterial community. It was not possible to observe significant modifications in the composition in relation to the plant species. We have seen that soil characteristics and rainfall were the factors that most influenced the microbial composition. Also, the bacterial community had a significant correlation with soil characteristics that indicates that these rhizosphere communities might be selected by environmental characteristics. Furthermore, the data suggest that climate plays a key role in structuring the microbial community of this biome.	2013	10.1007/s11274-013-1286-4
Walters, SP; Gonzalez-Escalona, N; Son, I; Melka, DC; Sassoubre, LM; Boehm, AB	Salmonella enterica Diversity in Central Californian Coastal Waterways	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Salmonella enterica is one of the most important bacterial enteric pathogens worldwide. However, little is known about its distribution and diversity in the environment. The present study explored the diversity of 104 strains of Salmonella enterica isolated over 2 years from 12 coastal waterways in central California. Pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and multilocus sequence typing were used to probe species diversity. Seventy-four PFGE patterns and 38 sequence types (STs) were found, including 18 newly described STs. Nineteen of 25 PFGE patterns were indistinguishable from those of clinical isolates in PulseNet. The most common ST was consistent with S. enterica serovar Typhimurium, and other frequently detected STs were associated with the serovars Heidelberg and Enteritidis; all of these serovars are important etiologies of salmonellosis. An investigation into S. enterica biogeography was conducted at the level of ST and subspecies. At the ST and subspecies level, we found a taxon-time relationship but no taxon-area or taxon-environmental distance relationships. STs collected during wet versus dry conditions tended to be more similar; however, STs collected from waterways adjacent to watersheds with similar land covers did not tend to be similar. The results suggest that the lack of dispersal limitation may be an important factor affecting the diversity of S. enterica in the region.	2013	10.1128/AEM.00930-13
Adams, RI; Miletto, M; Taylor, JW; Bruns, TD	Dispersal in microbes: fungi in indoor air are dominated by outdoor air and show dispersal limitation at short distances	ISME JOURNAL	The indoor microbiome is a complex system that is thought to depend on dispersal from the outdoor biome and the occupants microbiome combined with selective pressures imposed by the occupants behaviors and the building itself. We set out to determine the pattern of fungal diversity and composition in indoor air on a local scale and to identify processes behind that pattern. We surveyed airborne fungal assemblages within 1-month time periods at two seasons, with high replication, indoors and outdoors, within and across standardized residences at a university housing facility. Fungal assemblages indoors were diverse and strongly determined by dispersal from outdoors, and no fungal taxa were found as indicators of indoor air. There was a seasonal effect on the fungi found in both indoor and outdoor air, and quantitatively more fungal biomass was detected outdoors than indoors. A strong signal of isolation by distance existed in both outdoor and indoor airborne fungal assemblages, despite the small geographic scale in which this study was undertaken (<500 m). Moreover, room and occupant behavior had no detectable effect on the fungi found in indoor air. These results show that at the local level, outdoor air fungi dominate the patterning of indoor air. More broadly, they provide additional support for the growing evidence that dispersal limitation, even on small geographic scales, is a key process in structuring the often-observed distance-decay biogeographic pattern in microbial communities.	2013	10.1038/ismej.2013.28
Wu, B; Tian, JQ; Bai, CM; Xiang, MC; Sun, JZ; Liu, XZ	The biogeography of fungal communities in wetland sediments along the Changjiang River and other sites in China	ISME JOURNAL	Whether fungal community structure depends more on historical factors or on contemporary factors is controversial. This study used culture-dependent and -independent (polymerase chain reaction-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (PCR-DGGE)) methods to assess the influence of historical and contemporary factors on the distributions of fungi in the wetland sediments at 10 locations along the Changjiang River and at 10 other locations in China. The culture-dependent approach detected greater species diversity (177 operational taxonomic units (OTUs)) than PCR-DGGE analysis (145 OTUs), and the species in the genera of Penicillium (relative frequency 16.8%), Fusarium (15.4%), Aspergillus (7.6%), Trichoderma (5.8%) and Talaromyces (4.2%) were dominant. On the basis of DGGE data, fungal diversity along the Changjiang River increased from upstream to downstream; altitude explained 44.8% of this variation in diversity. And based on the data from all 20 locations, the fungal communities were geographically clustered into three groups: Southern China, Northern China and the Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau. Multivariate regression tree analysis for data from the 20 locations indicated that the fungal community was influenced primarily by location (which explained 61.8% of the variation at a large scale), followed by total potassium (9.4%) and total nitrogen (3.5%) at a local scale. These results are consistent with the concept that geographic distance is the dominant factor driving variation in fungal diversity at a regional scale (1000-4000 km), whereas environmental factors (total potassium and total nitrogen) explain variation in fungal diversity at a local scale (<1000 km).	2013	10.1038/ismej.2013.29
Wang, JJ; Shen, J; Wu, YC; Tu, C; Soininen, J; Stegen, JC; He, JZ; Liu, XQ; Zhang, L; Zhang, EL	Phylogenetic beta diversity in bacterial assemblages across ecosystems: deterministic versus stochastic processes	ISME JOURNAL	Increasing evidence has emerged for non-random spatial distributions of microbes, but knowledge of the processes that cause variation in microbial assemblage among ecosystems is lacking. For instance, some studies showed that deterministic processes such as habitat specialization are important, while other studies hold that bacterial communities are assembled by stochastic forces. Here we examine the relative influence of deterministic and stochastic processes for bacterial communities from subsurface environments, stream biofilm, lake water, lake sediment and soil using pyrosequencing of the 16S ribosomal RNA gene. We show that there is a general pattern in phylogenetic signal in species ecological niches across recent evolutionary time for all studied habitats, enabling us to infer the influences of community assembly processes from patterns of phylogenetic turnover in community composition. The phylogenetic dissimilarities among-habitat types were significantly higher than within them, and the communities were clustered according to their original habitat types. For communities within-habitat types, the highest phylogenetic turnover rate through space was observed in subsurface environments, followed by stream biofilm on mountainsides, whereas the sediment assemblages across regional scales showed the lowest turnover rate. Quantifying phylogenetic turnover as the deviation from a null expectation suggested that measured environmental variables imposed strong selection on bacterial communities for nearly all sample groups. For three sample groups, spatial distance reflected unmeasured environmental variables that impose selection, as opposed to spatial isolation. Such characterization of spatial and environmental variables proved essential for proper interpretation of partial Mantel results based on observed beta diversity metrics. In summary, our results clearly indicate a dominant role of deterministic processes on bacterial assemblages and highlight that bacteria show strong habitat associations that have likely emerged through evolutionary adaptation.	2013	10.1038/ismej.2013.30
Tai, V; Keeling, PJ	Termite Hindguts and the Ecology of Microbial Communities in the Sequencing Age	JOURNAL OF EUKARYOTIC MICROBIOLOGY	Advances in high-throughput nucleic acid sequencing have improved our understanding of microbial communities in a number of ways. Deeper sequence coverage provides the means to assess diversity at the resolution necessary to recover ecological and biogeographic patterns, and at the same time single-cell genomics provides detailed information about the interactions between members of a microbial community. Given the vastness and complexity of microbial ecosystems, such analyses remain challenging for most environments, so greater insight can also be drawn from analysing less dynamic ecosystems. Here, we outline the advantages of one such environment, the wood-digesting hindgut communities of termites and cockroaches, and how it is a model to examine and compare both protist and bacterial communities. Beyond the analysis of diversity, our understanding of protist community ecology will depend on using statistically sound sampling regimes at biologically relevant scales, transitioning from discovery-based to experimental ecology, incorporating single-cell microbiology and other data sources, and continued development of analytical tools.	2013	10.1111/jeu.12048
Viketoft, M	Determinants of small-scale spatial patterns: Importance of space, plants and abiotics for soil nematodes	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	Belowground communities support a great diversity of organisms, but the factors that maintain and regulate this diversity are poorly understood. Both abiotic and biotic factors affect the abundance, diversity and distribution of soil organisms, and the spatial heterogeneity in these factors is a key in explaining belowground biodiversity. However, a combined approach estimating the relative importance of spatial and environmental factors in small-scale structuring of soil communities is yet missing. Here, a semi-natural grassland in south-central Sweden with high diversity of plants was sampled at two spatial scales (10 and 60 cm intervals) with the aim to examine the relative roles of plant identity, abiotic environmental factors and spatial factors for the small-scale spatial patterns of nematodes. The data were analysed by variance partitioning with redundancy analysis. Space, vegetation and abiotics were of similar importance for variation in nematode community composition. However, the contribution of the different sets of variables differed between the different nematode feeding groups: plant-feeding nematodes were influenced more by spatial variables, fungal-feeding nematodes and omnivores/predators more by plants and bacterial-feeding nematodes more by abiotic variables. The ranges of spatial dependence for the different feeding groups were all of the same magnitude, around 1 m. The results add to the understanding of the factors that contribute to soil biodiversity, and they show that combining plant and abiotic variables into one set of environmental variables hide important information about the drivers for belowground community assembly. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2013	10.1016/j.soilbio.2013.03.012
Aronson, EL; Dubinsky, EA; Helliker, BR	Effects of nitrogen addition on soil microbial diversity and methane cycling capacity depend on drainage conditions in a pine forest soil	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	Two forested study sites, one well and one poorly drained, were used for investigation of the effects of variation in drainage, microclimate, and addition of inorganic nitrogen (N) on the whole soil microbial community and its methane cycling capacity. Both sites were capable of consuming and releasing large quantities of methane. The composition of the soil microbial community was investigated using the 3rd generation PhyloChip, a bacterial and archaeal 16S rRNA gene microarray. The PhyloChip was also used to target the composition of methane- and some N-cycling microorganisms. Relative abundance of functional genes involved in methane production and consumption was evaluated with qPCR. Soil drainage condition determined the microbial community structure within and between sites. Greater community structure variation, richness of methanotrophs, and higher abundances of both methanotrophs and methanogens were all found in the poorly drained site, as was higher soil moisture and C content and methane release. In the poorly drained site, high N (67 kg NH4NO3 ha(-1) yr(-1)) increased methanotroph and methanogen abundance, overall taxonomic richness of Bacteria and Archaea, and richness of nitrifiers and methanotrophs. In the well drained site, high N decreased taxonomic richness. Results may indicate that high N concentrations stimulated oxidative reactions, including ammonia and methane oxidation and nitrification in the short term. The resultant increase in release of methane from the high N plots of the poorly-drained site may have been due to indirect inhibition of methane oxidation by the increase in other oxidative reactions. Alternatively, both methanogens and methanotrophs may have been stimulated by high N. Well-drained site high N decreased the taxonomic richness of the soil, but did not impact methane-cycling microbes. These findings begin to bridge the gap between microbial-scale community dynamics and ecosystem-scale ecological functions. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2013	10.1016/j.soilbio.2013.03.005
Lepere, C; Domaizon, I; Taib, N; Mangot, JF; Bronner, G; Boucher, D; Debroas, D	Geographic distance and ecosystem size determine the distribution of smallest protists in lacustrine ecosystems	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Understanding the spatial distribution of aquatic microbial diversity and the underlying mechanisms causing differences in community composition is a challenging and central goal for ecologists. Recent insights into protistan diversity and ecology are increasing the debate over their spatial distribution. In this study, we investigate the importance of spatial and environmental factors in shaping the small protists community structure in lakes. We analyzed small protists community composition (beta-diversity) and richness (alpha-diversity) at regional scale by different molecular methods targeting the gene coding for 18S rRNA gene (T-RFLP and 454 pyrosequencing). Our results show a distance-decay pattern for rare and dominant taxa and the spatial distribution of the latter followed the prediction of the island biogeography theory. Furthermore, geographic distances between lakes seem to be the main force shaping the protists community composition in the lakes studied here. Finally, the spatial distribution of protists was discussed at the global scale (11 worldwide distributed lakes) by comparing these results with those present in the public database. UniFrac analysis showed 18S rRNA gene OTUs compositions significantly different among most of lakes, and this difference does not seem to be related to the trophic status.	2013	10.1111/1574-6941.12100
Brazelton, WJ; Morrill, PL; Szponar, N; Schrenk, MO	Bacterial Communities Associated with Subsurface Geochemical Processes in Continental Serpentinite Springs	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Reactions associated with the geochemical process of serpentinization can generate copious quantities of hydrogen and low-molecular-weight organic carbon compounds, which may provide energy and nutrients to sustain subsurface microbial communities independently of the photosynthetically supported surface biosphere. Previous microbial ecology studies have tested this hypothesis in deep sea hydrothermal vents, such as the Lost City hydrothermal field. This study applied similar methods, including molecular fingerprinting and tag sequencing of the 16S rRNA gene, to ultrabasic continental springs emanating from serpentinizing ultramafic rocks. These molecular surveys were linked with geochemical measurements of the fluids in an interdisciplinary approach designed to distinguish potential subsurface organisms from those derived from surface habitats. The betaproteobacterial genus Hydrogenophaga was identified as a likely inhabitant of transition zones where hydrogen-enriched subsurface fluids mix with oxygenated surface water. The Firmicutes genus Erysipelothrix was most strongly correlated with geochemical factors indicative of subsurface fluids and was identified as the most likely inhabitant of a serpentinization-powered subsurface biosphere. Both of these taxa have been identified in multiple hydrogen-enriched subsurface habitats worldwide, and the results of this study contribute to an emerging biogeographic pattern in which Betaproteobacteria occur in near-surface mixing zones and Firmicutes are present in deeper, anoxic subsurface habitats.	2013	10.1128/AEM.00330-13
Nazaries, L; Pan, Y; Bodrossy, L; Baggs, EM; Millard, P; Murrell, JC; Singh, BK	Evidence of Microbial Regulation of Biogeochemical Cycles from a Study on Methane Flux and Land Use Change	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Microbes play an essential role in ecosystem functions, including carrying out biogeochemical cycles, but are currently considered a black box in predictive models and all global biodiversity debates. This is due to (i) perceived temporal and spatial variations in microbial communities and (ii) lack of ecological theory explaining how microbes regulate ecosystem functions. Providing evidence of the microbial regulation of biogeochemical cycles is key for predicting ecosystem functions, including greenhouse gas fluxes, under current and future climate scenarios. Using functional measures, stable-isotope probing, and molecular methods, we show that microbial (community diversity and function) response to land use change is stable over time. We investigated the change in net methane flux and associated microbial communities due to afforestation of bog, grassland, and moorland. Afforestation resulted in the stable and consistent enhancement in sink of atmospheric methane at all sites. This change in function was linked to a niche-specific separation of microbial communities (methanotrophs). The results suggest that ecological theories developed for macroecology may explain the microbial regulation of the methane cycle. Our findings provide support for the explicit consideration of microbial data in ecosystem/climate models to improve predictions of biogeochemical cycles.	2013	10.1128/AEM.00095-13
Rohini-Kumar, M; Osborne, JW; Saravanan, VS	Comparison of Soil Bacterial Communities of Pinus patula of Nilgiris, Western Ghats with Other Biogeographically Distant Pine Forest Clone Libraries	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	The bacterial community structure of the rhizosphere and non-rhizosphere soil of Pinus patula, found in the Nilgiris region of Western Ghats, was studied by constructing 16S rRNA gene clone libraries. In the rhizosphere and non-rhizosphere soil clone libraries constructed, 13 and 15 bacterial phyla were identified, respectively. The clone libraries showed the predominance of members of culturally underrepresented phyla like Acidobacteria and Verrucomicrobia. The Alphaproteobacteria and Acidobacteria clones were predominant in rhizosphere and non-rhizosphere soil samples, respectively. In rhizosphere, amongst Alphaproteobacteria members, Bradyrhizobium formed the significant proportion, whereas in non-rhizosphere, members of subdivision-6 of phylum Acidobacteria were abundant. The diversity analysis of P. patula soil libraries showed that the phylotypes (16S rRNA gene similarity cutoff, a parts per thousand yen97 %) of Acidobacteria and Bacteroidetes were relatively predominant and diverse followed by Alphaproteobacteria and Verrucomicrobia. The diversity indices estimated higher richness and abundance of bacteria in P. patula soil clone libraries than the pine forest clone libraries retrieved from previous studies. The tools like principal co-ordinate analysis and Jackknife cluster analysis, which were under UniFrac analysis indicated that variations in soil bacterial communities were attributed to their respective geographical locations due to the phylogenetic divergence amongst the clone libraries. Overall, the P. patula rhizosphere and non-rhizosphere clone libraries were found significantly unique in composition, evenly distributed and highly rich in phylotypes, amongst the biogeographically distant clone libraries. It was finally hypothesised that the phylogenetic divergence amongst the bacterial phylotypes and natural selection plays a pivotal role in the variations of bacterial communities across the geographical distance.	2013	10.1007/s00248-012-0167-y
Peng, XF; Jayakumar, A; Ward, BB	Community composition of ammonia-oxidizing archaea from surface and anoxic depths of oceanic oxygen minimum zones	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Ammonia oxidizing archaea (AOA) have been reported at high abundance in much of the global ocean, even in environments, such as pelagic oxygen minimum zones (OMZs), where conditions seem unlikely to support aerobic ammonium oxidation. Due to the lack of information on any potential alternative metabolism of AOA, the AOA community composition might be expected to differ between oxic and anoxic environments. This hypothesis was tested by evaluating AOA community composition using a functional gene microarray that targets the ammonia monooxygenase gene subunit A (amoA). The relationship between environmental parameters and the biogeography of the Arabian Sea and the Eastern Tropical South Pacific (ETSP) AOA assemblages was investigated using principal component analysis (PCA) and redundancy analysis (RDA). In both the Arabian Sea and the ETSP AOA communities within the core of the OMZ were not significantly different from those inhabiting the oxygenated surface waters above the OMZ. The AOA communities in the Arabian Sea were significantly different from those in the ETSP. In both oceans, the abundance of archaeal amoA gene in the core of the OMZ was higher than that in the surface waters. Our results indicate that AOA communities are distinguished by their geographic origin. RDA suggested that temperature (higher in the Arabian Sea than in the ETSP) was the main factor that correlated with the differences between the AOA communities. Physicochemical properties that characterized the different environments of the OMZ and surface waters played a less important role, than did geography, in shaping the AOA community composition.	2013	10.3389/fmicb.2013.00177
Belnap, J	Some Like It Hot, Some Not	SCIENCE		2013	10.1126/science.1240318
Garcia-Pichel, F; Loza, V; Marusenko, Y; Mateo, P; Potrafka, RM	Temperature Drives the Continental-Scale Distribution of Key Microbes in Topsoil Communities	SCIENCE	Global warming will likely force terrestrial plant and animal species to migrate toward cooler areas or sustain range losses; whether this is also true for microorganisms remains unknown. Through continental-scale compositional surveys of soil crust microbial communities across arid North America, we observed a latitudinal replacement in dominance between two key topsoil cyanobacteria that was driven largely by temperature. The responses to temperature of enrichment cultures and cultivated strains support this contention, with one cyanobacterium (Microcoleus vaginatus) being more psychrotolerant and less thermotolerant than the other (M. steenstrupii). In view of our data and regional climate predictions, the latter cyanobacterium may replace the former in much of the studied area within the next few decades, with unknown ecological consequences for soil fertility and erodibility.	2013	10.1126/science.1236404
Tofalo, R; Perpetuini, G; Schirone, M; Fasoli, G; Aguzzi, I; Corsetti, A; Suzzi, G	Biogeographical characterization of Saccharomyces cerevisiae wine yeast by molecular methods	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Biogeography is the descriptive and explanatory study of spatial patterns and processes involved in the distribution of biodiversity. Without biogeography, it would be difficult to study the diversity of microorganisms because there would be no way to visualize patterns in variation. Saccharomyces cerevisiae, the wine yeast, is the most important species involved in alcoholic fermentation, and in vineyard ecosystems, it follows the principle of everything is everywhere. Agricultural practices such as farming (organic versus conventional) and floor management systems have selected different populations within this species that are phylogenetically distinct. In fact, recent ecological and geographic studies highlighted that unique strains are associated with particular grape varieties in specific geographical locations. These studies also highlighted that significant diversity and regional character, or terroir, have been introduced into the winemaking process via this association. This diversity of wild strains preserves typicity, the high quality, and the unique flavor of wines. Recently, different molecular methods were developed to study population dynamics of S. cerevisiae strains in both vineyards and wineries. In this review, we will provide an update on the current molecular methods used to reveal the geographical distribution of S. cerevisiae wine yeast.	2013	10.3389/fmicb.2013.00166
Wagner, ID; Varghese, LB; Hemme, CL; Wiegel, J	Multilocus sequence analysis of Thermoanaerobacter isolates reveals recombining, but differentiated, populations from geothermal springs of the Uzon Caldera, Kamchatka, Russia	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Thermal environments have island-like characteristics and provide a unique opportunity to study population structure and diversity patterns of microbial taxa inhabiting these sites. Strains having >= 98% 16S rRNA gene sequence similarity to the obligately anaerobic Firmicutes Thermoanaerobacter uzonensis were isolated from seven geothermal springs, separated by up to 1600 m, within the Uzon Caldera (Kamchatka, Russian Far East). The intraspecies variation and spatial patterns of diversity for this taxon were assessed by multilocus sequence analysis (MLSA) of 106 strains. Analysis of eight protein-coding loci (gyrB, lepA, leuS, pyrG, recA, recG, rplB, and rpoB) revealed that all loci were polymorphic and that nucleotide substitutions were mostly synonymous. There were 148 variable nucleotide sites across 8003 bp concatenates of the protein-coding loci. While pairwise F-ST values indicated a small but significant level of genetic differentiation between most subpopulations, there was a negligible relationship between genetic divergence and spatial separation. Strains with the same allelic profile were only isolated from the same hot spring, occasionally from consecutive years, and single locus variant (SLV) sequence types were usually derived from the same spring. While recombination occurred, there was an epidemic population structure in which a particular T uzonensis sequence type rose in frequency relative to the rest of the population. These results demonstrate spatial diversity patterns for an anaerobic bacterial species in a relative small geographic location and reinforce the view that terrestrial geothermal springs are excellent places to look for biogeographic diversity patterns regardless of the involved distances.	2013	10.3389/fmicb.2013.00169
Flombaum, P; Gallegos, JL; Gordillo, RA; Rincon, J; Zabala, LL; Jiao, NAZ; Karl, DM; Li, WKW; Lomas, MW; Veneziano, D; Vera, CS; Vrugt, JA; Martiny, AC	Present and future global distributions of the marine Cyanobacteria Prochlorococcus and Synechococcus	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	The Cyanobacteria Prochlorococcus and Synechococcus account for a substantial fraction of marine primary production. Here, we present quantitative niche models for these lineages that assess present and future global abundances and distributions. These niche models are the result of neural network, nonparametric, and parametric analyses, and they rely on >35,000 discrete observations from all major ocean regions. The models assess cell abundance based on temperature and photosynthetically active radiation, but the individual responses to these environmental variables differ for each lineage. The models estimate global biogeographic patterns and seasonal variability of cell abundance, with maxima in the warm oligotrophic gyres of the Indian and the western Pacific Oceans and minima at higher latitudes. The annual mean global abundances of Prochlorococcus and Synechococcus are 2.9 +/- 0.1 x 10(27) and 7.0 +/- 0.3 x 10(26) cells, respectively. Using projections of sea surface temperature as a result of increased concentration of greenhouse gases at the end of the 21st century, our niche models projected increases in cell numbers of 29% and 14% for Prochlorococcus and Synechococcus, respectively. The changes are geographically uneven but include an increase in area. Thus, our global niche models suggest that oceanic microbial communities will experience complex changes as a result of projected future climate conditions. Because of the high abundances and contributions to primary production of Prochlorococcus and Synechococcus, these changes may have large impacts on ocean ecosystems and biogeochemical cycles.	2013	10.1073/pnas.1307701110
Ling, ZX; Liu, X; Luo, YQ; Yuan, L; Nelson, KE; Wang, YZ; Xiang, C; Li, LJ	Pyrosequencing analysis of the human microbiota of healthy Chinese undergraduates	BMC GENOMICS	Background: Elucidating the biogeography of bacterial communities on the human body is critical for establishing healthy baselines from which to detect differences associated with disease; however, little is known about the baseline bacterial profiles from various human habitats of healthy Chinese undergraduates. Results: Using parallel barcoded 454 pyrosequencing targeting on the 16S rRNA gene V3 region, the bacterial diversity of the nasopharynx, saliva, dominant hands, and feces were investigated from 10 healthy Chinese junior boarding undergraduates at Zhejiang University. The participants were 21-24 years of age with a body mass index (BMI) < 24 kg/m(2). A total of 156,717 high-quality pyrosequencing reads were obtained for evaluating bacterial diversity, which represented 29,887 unique phylotypes. The overall taxonomic distribution of the 16S rRNA gene-based amplicons demonstrated that these 4 habitats of the human body harbored distinct microbiota and could be divided into different clusters according to anatomic site, while the established patterns of bacterial diversity followed the human body habitat (feces, hands, saliva, and nasopharynx). Although significant inter-individual variation was observed, the healthy microbiota still shared a large number of phylotypes in each habitat, but not among the four habitats, indicating that a core microbiome existed in each healthy habitat. The vast majority of sequences from these different habitats were classified into different taxonmies that became the predominant bacteria of the healthy microbiota. Conclusions: We first established the framework of microbial communities from four healthy human habitats of the same participants with similar living environments for the Chinese undergraduates. Our data represent an important step for determining the diversity of Chinese healthy microbiota, and can be used for more large-scale studies that focus on the interactions between healthy and diseases states for young Chinese adults in the same age range.	2013	10.1186/1471-2164-14-390
Himsworth, CG; Bidulka, J; Parsons, KL; Feng, AYT; Tang, P; Jardine, CM; Kerr, T; Mak, S; Robinson, J; Patrick, DM	Ecology of Leptospira interrogans in Norway Rats (Rattus norvegicus) in an Inner-City Neighborhood of Vancouver, Canada	PLOS NEGLECTED TROPICAL DISEASES	Background: Leptospira interrogans is a bacterial zoonosis with a worldwide distribution for which rats (Rattus spp.) are the primary reservoir in urban settings. In order to assess, monitor, and mitigate the risk to humans, it is important to understand the ecology of this pathogen in rats. The objective of this study was to characterize the ecology of L. interrogans in Norway rats (Rattus norvegicus) in an impoverished inner-city neighborhood of Vancouver, Canada. Methodology/Principal Findings: Trapping was performed in 43 city blocks, and one location within the adjacent port, over a 12 month period. Kidney samples were tested for the presence of L. interrogans using PCR and sequencing. A multivariable model was built to predict L. interrogans infection status in individual rats using season and morphometric data (e. g., weight, sex, maturity, condition, etc.) as independent variables. Spatial analysis was undertaken to identify clusters of high and low L. interrogans prevalence. The prevalence of L. interrogans varied remarkably among blocks (0-66.7%), and spatial clusters of both high and low L. interrogans prevalence were identified. In the final cluster-controlled model, characteristics associated with L. interrogans-infection in rats included weight (OR = 1.14, 95% CI = 1.07-1.20), increased internal fat (OR = 2.12, 95% CI = 1.06-4.25), and number of bite wounds (OR = 1.20, 95% CI = 0.96-1.49). Conclusions/Significance: Because L. interrogans prevalence varied with weight, body fat, and bite wounds, this study suggests that social structure and interactions among rats may influence transmission. The prevalence and distribution of L. interrogans in rats was also highly variable even over a short geographic distance. These factors should be considered in future risk management efforts.	2013	10.1371/journal.pntd.0002270
Mangot, JF; Domaizon, I; Taib, N; Marouni, N; Duffaud, E; Bronner, G; Debroas, D	Short-term dynamics of diversity patterns: evidence of continual reassembly within lacustrine small eukaryotes	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	The short-term variation in the community structure of freshwater small eukaryotes (0.2-5m) was investigated in a mesotrophic lake every 2-3 days over one summer by coupling three molecular methods: 454 amplicon pyrosequencing, qPCR and TSA-FISH. The pyrosequencing approach unveiled a much more extensive small-eukaryotic diversity (991 OTUs) than has been described previously. The vast majority of the diversity described was represented by rare OTUs (0.01% of reads) belonging primarily to Cryptomycota, Dikarya and photosynthetic organisms, which were never detected as abundant in any of the samples. The small eukaryote community was characterized by a continual and important reassembly. These rearrangements involved the 20 core taxa (1% of reads), and, were essentially due to a handful of OTUs that were detected in intermediate abundance (0.01-1% of reads) and sporadically in dominant taxa. Putative bacterivorous (Ciliophora and Cercozoa) as well as parasitic and saprotrophic taxa (Perkinsozoa and Cryptomycota) were involved in these changes of diversity. A putative infection of microalgae by a lacustrine perkinsozoan was also reported for the first time in this study. Open questions regarding both the patterns that govern the rapid small eukaryote reassemblies and the possible biogeography of these organisms arise from this study.	2013	10.1111/1462-2920.12065
Park, JK; Lee, SH; Lee, JH; Han, S; Kang, H; Kim, JC; Kim, YC; Gardener, BM	Sampling and Selection Factors that Enhance the Diversity of Microbial Collections: Application to Biopesticide Development	PLANT PATHOLOGY JOURNAL	Diverse bacteria are known to colonize plants. However, only a small fraction of that diversity has been evaluated for their biopesticide potential. To date, the criteria for sampling and selection in such bioprospecting endeavors have not been systematically evaluated in terms of the relative amount of diversity they provide for analysis. The present study aimed to enhance the success of bioprospecting efforts by increasing the diversity while removing the genotypic redundancy often present in large collections of bacteria. We developed a multivariate sampling and marker-based selection strategy that significantly increase the diversity of bacteria recovered from plants. In doing so, we quantified the effects of varying sampling intensity, media composition, incubation conditions, plant species, and soil source on the diversity of recovered isolates. Subsequent sequencing and high-throughput phenotypic analyses of a small fraction of the collected isolates revealed that this approach led to the recovery of over a dozen rare and, to date, poorly characterized genera of plant-associated bacteria with significant biopesticide activities. Overall, the sampling and selection approach described led to an approximately 5-fold improvement in efficiency and the recovery of several novel strains of bacteria with significant biopesticide potential.	2013	10.5423/PPJ.SI.01.2013.0015
Fu, YY; Keats, KF; Rivkin, RB; Lang, AS	Water mass and depth determine the distribution and diversity of Rhodobacterales in an Arctic marine system	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Marine Rhodobacterales are recognized as a widespread, abundant, and metabolically versatile bacterial group in the worlds oceans. They also show a nearly universal conservation of the genes for production of gene transfer agents (GTAs), virus-like particles that mediate genetic exchange between cells. It is not yet clear what factors determine the distribution of the various taxonomic subgroups of this order. To address this question, we analyzed the Rhodobacterales communities in 10 seawater samples from northern Baffin Bay collected during September 2008. A conserved gene from the GTA gene cluster was used to characterize the Rhodobacterales community structure. A total of 320 clones from 10 clone libraries were sequenced, and 22 operational taxonomic units representing putative species and 13 clusters representing putative genera were identified. A cluster related to Octadecabacter comprised 59% of total clones from the northern Baffin Bay. Phylogenetic analysis of the clones showed that the Rhodobacterales communities had distinct compositions in the different water masses that were sampled. A change in community structure related to depth was also observed. Therefore, in northern Baffin Bay where two ocean currents meet and mix, the Rhodobacterales community structures were primarily determined by water mass and depth.	2013	10.1111/1574-6941.12085
Baltanas, A; Danielopol, DL	Body-size distribution and biogeographical patterns in non-marine ostracods (Crustacea: Ostracoda)	BIOLOGICAL JOURNAL OF THE LINNEAN SOCIETY	The idea that free-living minute organisms have ubiquitous distributions has been recently revitalized, causing significant controversy. The ubiquitous model predicts that a threshold where ubiquity leaves room to biogeography might exist somewhere along the animal body-size range. In the present study, such a prediction is tested by analysing body-size frequency distribution, species distribution, and local-to-global species ratio at the scale of biogeographical realms in cypridoidean non-marine ostracods, a group with a body-size range in the ubiquitybiogeography (U-B) boundary. Data were gathered for all described extant cypridoidean ostracod species (N=1761), with body-size recorded for 1134 of them. Although local-to-global species ratios show significant over-dispersal of small-body ostracods for the Palaearctic and the Australasian regions, there are explanations alternative to the Everything is Everywhere model that can account for such a result. Indicators of taxonomic structure do not support the hypothesis of a random distribution of cypridoidean species among realms. Nevertheless, the strong biogeography signal occurring at a large scale vanishes at the local scale (country-level within the Palaearctic), and suggests wide dispersion within biogeographical realms. Additional factors, including inconsistent taxonomic criteria for species recognition, uneven sampling effort, and an excess of single-report occurrences, have been identified too as potential distorters of the observed patterns. Taxonomic harmonization, open databases of biogeographical data, and better ecological information are suggested as critical goals that need to be achieved for further understanding of ostracod global distribution patterns.(c) 2013 The Linnean Society of London, Biological Journal of the Linnean Society, 2013, 109, 409423.	2013	10.1111/bij.12041
McBeth, JM; Fleming, EJ; Emerson, D	The transition from freshwater to marine iron-oxidizing bacterial lineages along a salinity gradient on the Sheepscot River, Maine, USA	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY REPORTS	Oxygen-dependent, neutrophilic iron-oxidizing bacteria (FeOB) are important drivers of iron transformations in marine and freshwater environments. Despite remarkable similarities in physiology and morphotype, known freshwater and marine FeOB are clustered in different classes of Proteobacteria; freshwater FeOB in the Betaproteobacteria and marine FeOB in the Zetaproteobacteria. To determine effects of salinity on these microbes, we examined the mineral biosignatures and molecular ecology of bacteria in FeOB mats collected along an estuarine salinity gradient. Light microscopy and scanning electron microscopy analyses showed the presence of iron oxide stalk and sheath structures in both freshwater and saline iron mats. Results of tagged pyrosequencing, quantitative PCR and fluorescent in situ hybridization, all based on the small subunit rRNA gene, confirmed Zetaproteobacteria were not present in freshwater mats, but were in saline mats at salinities down to 5 parts per thousand. Among the Betaproteobacteria, Leptothrix spp. were only found in the freshwater mat. Gallionella spp. were limited to freshwater and low salinity mats (<5 parts per thousand). Sideroxydans sp. were salt tolerant; however, their relative abundance decreased with increasing salinity. These results suggest salinity is important in shaping the population biology of iron mat communities, and some coexistence between marine and freshwater populations occurs in brackish waters.	2013	10.1111/1758-2229.12033
Polme, S; Bahram, M; Yamanaka, T; Nara, K; Dai, YC; Grebenc, T; Kraigher, H; Toivonen, M; Wang, PH; Matsuda, Y; Naadel, T; Kennedy, PG; Koljalg, U; Tedersoo, L	Biogeography of ectomycorrhizal fungi associated with alders (Alnus spp.) in relation to biotic and abiotic variables at the global scale	NEW PHYTOLOGIST	Much of the macroecological information about microorganisms is confounded by the lack of standardized methodology, paucity of metadata and sampling effect of a particular substrate or interacting host taxa. This study aims to disentangle the relative effects of biological, geographical and edaphic variables on the distribution of Alnus-associated ectomycorrhizal (ECM) fungi at the global scale by using comparable sampling and analysis methods. Ribosomal DNA sequence analysis revealed 146 taxa of ECM fungi from 22 Alnus species across 96 sites worldwide. Use of spatial and phylogenetic eigenvectors along with environmental variables in model selection indicated that phylogenetic relations among host plants and geographical links explained 43 and 10%, respectively, in ECM fungal community composition, whereas soil calcium concentration positively influenced taxonomic richness. Intrageneric phylogenetic relations among host plants and regional processes largely account for the global biogeographic distribution of Alnus-associated ECM fungi. The biogeography of ECM fungi is consistent with ancient host migration patterns from Eurasia to North America and from southern Europe to northern Europe after the last glacial maximum, indicating codispersal of hosts and their mycobionts.	2013	10.1111/nph.12170
Sayer, EJ; Wagner, M; Oliver, AE; Pywell, RF; James, P; Whiteley, AS; Heard, MS	Grassland management influences spatial patterns of soil microbial communities	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	Soil micro-organisms play a vital role in grassland ecosystem functioning but little is known about the effects of grassland management on spatial patterns of soil microbial communities. We compared plant species composition with terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) fingerprints of soil bacterial and fungal communities in unimproved, restored and improved wet grasslands. We assessed community composition of soil micro-organisms at distances ranging from 0.01 m to 100 m and determined taxa-area relationships from field- to landscape level. We show that land management type influenced bacterial but not fungal community composition. However, extensive grassland management to restore aboveground diversity affected spatial patterns of soil fungi. We found distinct distance-decay and small-scale aggregation of fungal populations in extensively managed grasslands restored from former arable use. There were no clear spatial patterns in bacterial communities at the field-scale. However, at the landscape level there was a moderate increase in bacterial taxa and a strong increase in fungal taxa with the number of sites sampled. Our results suggest that grassland management affects soil microbial communities at multiple scales; the observed small-scale variation may facilitate plant species coexistence and should be taken into account in field studies of soil microbial communities. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2013	10.1016/j.soilbio.2013.02.012
Spring, S; Riedel, T	Mixotrophic growth of bacteriochlorophyll a-containing members of the OM60/NOR5 clade of marine gammaproteobacteria is carbon-starvation independent and correlates with the type of carbon source and oxygen availability	BMC MICROBIOLOGY	Background: Populations of aerobic anoxygenic photoheterotrophic bacteria in marine environments are dominated by members of the Roseobacter lineage within the Alphaproteobacteria and the OM60/NOR5 clade of gammaproteobacteria. A wealth of information exists about the regulation of pigment production and mixotrophic growth in various members of the Roseobacter clade, but a detailed knowledge about aerobic bacteriochlorophyll a-containing gammaproteobacteria is still limited to one strain of the species Congregibacter litoralis. Results: The production of photosynthetic pigments and light-dependent mixotrophic growth was analysed in Luminiphilus syltensis DSM 22749(T), Chromatocurvus halotolerans DSM 23344(T) and Pseudohaliea rubra DSM 19751(T), representing three taxonomically diverse strains of bacteriochlorophyll a-containing gammaproteobacteria affiliated to the OM60/NOR5 clade. In these strains the expression of a photosynthetic apparatus depended mainly on the type of carbon source and availability of oxygen. The effect of illumination on pigment expression varied significantly between strains. In contrast to Chromatocurvus halotolerans, pigment production in Luminiphilus syltensis and Pseudohaliea rubra was repressed by light of moderate intensities, probably indicating a higher sensitivity to light-induced oxidative stress. The efficiency of using light for mixotrophic growth did not correlate with the cellular level of photosynthetic pigments, but depended mainly on the type of metabolized substrate with malate being the optimal carbon source in most cases. Conclusions: Oligotrophic growth conditions or carbon limitation were not required for light-dependent mixotrophic growth in members of the OM60/NOR5 clade. The ability of using light as energy source and the fine tuning of photosynthesis gene expression depended mainly on the type of carbon source and oxygen availability, which indicates that the regulation of pigment production is controlled by the cellular redox state. While light has the main impact on the regulation of photosynthetic pigments in photoheterotrophic representatives of the Roseobacter lineage this was not the case in strains of the OM60/NOR5 clade.	2013	10.1186/1471-2180-13-117
Zheng, YM; Cao, P; Fu, BJ; Hughes, JM; He, JZ	Ecological Drivers of Biogeographic Patterns of Soil Archaeal Community	PLOS ONE	Knowledge about the biogeography of organisms has long been a focus in ecological research, including the mechanisms that generate and maintain diversity. In this study, we targeted a microbial group relatively underrepresented in the microbial biogeographic literature, the soil Archaea. We surveyed the archaeal abundance and community composition using real-time quantitative PCR and T-RFLP approaches for 105 soil samples from 2 habitat types to identify the archaeal distribution patterns and factors driving these patterns. Results showed that the soil archaeal community was affected by spatial and environmental variables, and 79% and 51% of the community variation was explained in the non-flooded soil (NS) and flooded soil (FS) habitat, respectively, showing its possible biogeographic distribution. The diversity patterns of soil Archaea across the landscape were influenced by a combination of stochastic and deterministic processes. The contribution from neutral processes was higher than that from deterministic processes associated with environmental variables. The variables pH, sample depth and longitude played key roles in determining the archaeal distribution in the NS habitat, while sampling depth, longitude and NH4+-N were most important in the FS habitat. Overall, there might be similar ecological drivers in the soil archaeal community as in macroorganism communities.	2013	10.1371/journal.pone.0063375
Dick, GJ; Anantharaman, K; Baker, BJ; Li, M; Reed, DC; Sheik, CS	The microbiology of deep-sea hydrothermal vent plumes: ecological and biogeographic linkages to seafloor and water column habitats	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Hydrothermal plumes are an important yet understudied component of deep-sea vent microbial ecosystems. The significance of plume microbial processes can be appreciated from three perspectives: (1) mediation of plume biogeochemistry, (2) dispersal of seafloor hydrothermal vent microbes between vents sites, (3) as natural laboratories for understanding the ecology, physiology, and function of microbial groups that are distributed throughout the pelagic deep sea. Plume microbiology has been largely neglected in recent years, especially relative to the extensive research conducted on seafloor and subseafloor systems. Rapidly advancing technologies for investigating microbial communities provide new motivation and opportunities to characterize this important microbial habitat. Here we briefly highlight microbial contributions to plume and broader ocean (bio)geochemistry and review recent work to illustrate the ecological and biogeographic linkages between plumes, seafloor vent habitats, and other marine habitats such as oxygen minimum zones (OMZs), cold seeps, and oil spills. 16S rRNA gene surveys and metagenomic/-transcriptomic data from plumes point to dominant microbial populations, genes, and functions that are also operative in OMZs (SUP05, ammonia-oxidizing Archaea, and SAR324 Deltaproteobacteria) and hydrocarbon-rich environments (methanotrophs). Plume microbial communities are distinct from those on the seafloor or in the subsurface but contain some signatures of these habitats, consistent with the notion that plumes are potential vectors for dispersal of microorganisms between seafloor vent sites. Finally, we put forward three pressing questions for the future of deep-sea hydrothermal plume research and consider interactions between vents and oceans on global scales.	2013	10.3389/fmicb.2013.00124
Boyd, PW; Rynearson, TA; Armstrong, EA; Fu, FX; Hayashi, K; Hu, ZX; Hutchins, DA; Kudela, RM; Litchman, E; Mulholland, MR; Passow, U; Strzepek, RF; Whittaker, KA; Yu, E; Thomas, MK	Marine Phytoplankton Temperature versus Growth Responses from Polar to Tropical Waters - Outcome of a Scientific Community-Wide Study	PLOS ONE	It takes a village to finish (marine) science these days Paraphrased from Curtis Huttenhower (the Human Microbiome project) The rapidity and complexity of climate change and its potential effects on ocean biota are challenging how ocean scientists conduct research. One way in which we can begin to better tackle these challenges is to conduct community-wide scientific studies. This study provides physiological datasets fundamental to understanding functional responses of phytoplankton growth rates to temperature. While physiological experiments are not new, our experiments were conducted in many laboratories using agreed upon protocols and 25 strains of eukaryotic and prokaryotic phytoplankton isolated across a wide range of marine environments from polar to tropical, and from nearshore waters to the open ocean. This community-wide approach provides both comprehensive and internally consistent datasets produced over considerably shorter time scales than conventional individual and often uncoordinated lab efforts. Such datasets can be used to parameterise global ocean model projections of environmental change and to provide initial insights into the magnitude of regional biogeographic change in ocean biota in the coming decades. Here, we compare our datasets with a compilation of literature data on phytoplankton growth responses to temperature. A comparison with prior published data suggests that the optimal temperatures of individual species and, to a lesser degree, thermal niches were similar across studies. However, a comparison of the maximum growth rate across studies revealed significant departures between this and previously collected datasets, which may be due to differences in the cultured isolates, temporal changes in the clonal isolates in cultures, and/or differences in culture conditions. Such methodological differences mean that using particular trait measurements from the prior literature might introduce unknown errors and bias into modelling projections. Using our community-wide approach we can reduce such protocol-driven variability in culture studies, and can begin to address more complex issues such as the effect of multiple environmental drivers on ocean biota.	2013	10.1371/journal.pone.0063091
Vollmers, J; Voget, S; Dietrich, S; Gollnow, K; Smits, M; Meyer, K; Brinkhoff, T; Simon, M; Daniel, R	Poles Apart: Arctic and Antarctic Octadecabacter strains Share High Genome Plasticity and a New Type of Xanthorhodopsin	PLOS ONE	The genus Octadecabacter is a member of the ubiquitous marine Roseobacter clade. The two described species of this genus, Octadecabacter arcticus and Octadecabacter antarcticus, are psychrophilic and display a bipolar distribution. Here we provide the manually annotated and finished genome sequences of the type strains O. arcticus 238 and O. antarcticus 307, isolated from sea ice of the Arctic and Antarctic, respectively. Both genomes exhibit a high genome plasticity caused by an unusually high density and diversity of transposable elements. This could explain the discrepancy between the low genome synteny and high 16S rRNA gene sequence similarity between both strains. Numerous characteristic features were identified in the Octadecabacter genomes, which show indications of horizontal gene transfer and may represent specific adaptations to the habitats of the strains. These include a gene cluster encoding the synthesis and degradation of cyanophycin in O. arcticus 238, which is absent in O. antarcticus 307 and unique among the Roseobacter clade. Furthermore, genes representing a new subgroup of xanthorhodopsins as an adaptation to icy environments are present in both Octadecabacter strains. This new xanthorhodopsin subgroup differs from the previously characterized xanthorhodopsins of Salinibacter ruber and Gloeobacter violaceus in phylogeny, biogeography and the potential to bind 4-keto-carotenoids. Biochemical characterization of the Octadecabacter xanthorhodopsins revealed that they function as light-driven proton pumps.	2013	10.1371/journal.pone.0063422
Li, T; Wang, P	Biogeographical Distribution and Diversity of Bacterial Communities in Surface Sediments of the South China Sea	JOURNAL OF MICROBIOLOGY AND BIOTECHNOLOGY	This paper aims at an investigation of the features of bacterial communities in surface sediments of the South China Sea (SCS). In particular, biogeographical distribution patterns and the phylogenetic diversity of bacteria found in sediments collected from a coral reef platform, a continental slope, and a deep-sea basin were determined. Bacterial diversity was measured by an observation of 16S rRNA genes, and 18 phylogenetic groups were identified in the bacterial clone library. Planctomycetes, Deltaproteobacteria, candidate division OP11, and Alpha proteo bacteria made up the majority of the bacteria in the samples, with their mean bacterial clones being 16%, 15%, 12%, and 9%, respectively. By comparison, the bacterial communities found in the SCS surface sediments were significantly different from other previously observed deep-sea bacterial communities. This research also emphasizes the fact that geographical factors have an impact on the biogeographical distribution patterns of bacterial communities. For instance, canonical correspondence analyses illustrated that the percentage of sand weight and water depth are important factors affecting the bacterial community composition. Therefore, this study highlights the importance of adequately determining the relationship between geographical factors and the distribution of bacteria in the worlds seas and oceans.	2013	10.4014/jmb.1209.09040
Vezzulli, L; Colwell, RR; Pruzzo, C	Ocean Warming and Spread of Pathogenic Vibrios in the Aquatic Environment	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Vibrios are among the most common bacteria that inhabit surface waters throughout the world and are responsible for a number of severe infections both in humans and animals. Several reports recently showed that human Vibrio illnesses are increasing worldwide including fatal acute diarrheal diseases, such as cholera, gastroenteritis, wound infections, and septicemia. Many scientists believe this increase may be associated with global warming and rise in sea surface temperature (SST), although not enough evidence is available to support a causal link between emergence of Vibrio infections and climate warming. The effect of increased SST in promoting spread of vibrios in coastal and brackish waters is considered a causal factor explaining this trend. Field and laboratory studies carried out over the past 40 years supported this hypothesis, clearly showing temperature promotes Vibrio growth and persistence in the aquatic environment. Most recently, a long-term retrospective microbiological study carried out in the coastal waters of the southern North Sea provided the first experimental evidence for a positive and significant relationship between SST and Vibrio occurrence over a multidecadal time scale. As a future challenge, macroecological studies of the effects of ocean warming on Vibrio persistence and spread in the aquatic environment over large spatial and temporal scales would conclusively support evidence acquired to date combined with studies of the impact of global warming on epidemiologically relevant variables, such as host susceptibility and exposure. Assessing a causal link between ongoing climate change and enhanced growth and spread of vibrios and related illness is expected to improve forecast and mitigate future outbreaks associated with these pathogens.	2013	10.1007/s00248-012-0163-2
Brandsma, J; Martinez, JM; Slagter, HA; Evans, C; Brussaard, CPD	Microbial biogeography of the North Sea during summer	BIOGEOCHEMISTRY	Micro-organisms are vital for the functioning of all food webs and are the major drivers of the global biogeochemical cycles. The microbial community compositions and physicochemical conditions of the different water masses in the North Sea, a biologically productive sea on the northwestern European continental shelf, were studied during two summer cruises, in order to provide detailed baseline data for this region and examine its microbial biogeography. For each cruise the stations were clustered according to their physicochemical characteristics and their microbial community composition. The largest cluster, which covered most of the central and northern North Sea, consisted of stations that were characterized by a thermally stratified water column and had low chlorophyll a autofluorescence and generally low microbial abundances. The second main cluster contained stations that were dominated by picoeukaryotes and showed the influence of influxes of North Atlantic water via the English Channel and south of the Shetland Islands. The third main cluster was formed by stations that were dominated by cyanobacteria and nanoeukaryotes in the reduced salinity Norwegian Coastal and Skagerrak waters, while the fourth cluster represented the German Bight, a region with strong riverine input, high nutrient concentrations, and consequently high heterotrophic bacterial and viral abundances. Despite the complex and dynamic hydrographic nature of the North Sea, the consistent distinctions in microbiology between these different hydrographic regions during both cruises illustrate the strong links between the microbial community and its environment, as well as the possibility to use microorganisms for long-term monitoring of environmental change.	2013	10.1007/s10533-012-9783-3
Wilkins, D; Lauro, FM; Williams, TJ; Demaere, MZ; Brown, MV; Hoffman, JM; Andrews-Pfannkoch, C; Mcquaid, JB; Riddle, MJ; Rintoul, SR; Cavicchioli, R	Biogeographic partitioning of Southern Ocean microorganisms revealed by metagenomics	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	We performed a metagenomic survey (6.6Gbp of 454 sequence data) of Southern Ocean (SO) microorganisms during the austral summer of 20072008, examining the genomic signatures of communities across a latitudinal transect from Hobart (44 degrees S) to the Mertz Glacier, Antarctica (67 degrees S). Operational taxonomic units (OTUs) of the SAR11 and SAR116 clades and the cyanobacterial genera Prochlorococcus and Synechococcus were strongly overrepresented north of the Polar Front (PF). Conversely, OTUs of the Gammaproteobacterial Sulfur Oxidizer-EOSA-1 (GSO-EOSA-1) complex, the phyla Bacteroidetes and Verrucomicrobia and order Rhodobacterales were characteristic of waters south of the PF. Functions enriched south of the PF included a range of transporters, sulfur reduction and histidine degradation to glutamate, while branched-chain amino acid transport, nucleic acid biosynthesis and methionine salvage were overrepresented north of the PF. The taxonomic and functional characteristics suggested a shift of primary production from cyanobacteria in the north to eukaryotic phytoplankton in the south, and reflected the different trophic statuses of the two regions. The study provides a new level of understanding about SO microbial communities, describing the contrasting taxonomic and functional characteristics of microbial assemblages either side of the PF.	2013	10.1111/1462-2920.12035
Marston, MF; Taylor, S; Sme, N; Parsons, RJ; Noyes, TJE; Martiny, JBH	Marine cyanophages exhibit local and regional biogeography	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Biogeographic patterns have been demonstrated for a wide range of microorganisms. Nevertheless, the biogeography of marine viruses has been slower to emerge. Here we investigate biogeographic patterns of marine cyanophages that infect Synechococcus sp. WH7803 across multiple spatial and temporal scales. We compared cyanophage myoviral communities from nine coastal sites in Southern New England (SNE), USA, one site in Long Island NY, and four sites from Bermudas inshore waters by assaying cyanophage isolates using the myoviral g43 DNA polymerase gene. Cyanophage community composition varied temporally at each of the sites. Further, 6 years of sampling at one Narragansett Bay site revealed annual seasonal variations in community composition, driven by the seasonal reoccurrence of specific viral taxa. Although the four Bermuda communities were similar to one another, they were significantly different than the North American coastal communities, with almost no overlap of taxa between the two regions. Among the SNE sites, cyanophage community composition also varied significantly and was correlated with the body of water sampled (e.g. Narragansett Bay, Cape Cod Bay, Vineyard Sound), although here, the same viral taxa were found at multiple sites. This study demonstrates that marine cyanophages display striking seasonal and spatial biogeographic patterns.	2013	10.1111/1462-2920.12062
Sintes, E; Bergauer, K; De Corte, D; Yokokawa, T; Herndl, GJ	Archaeal amoA gene diversity points to distinct biogeography of ammonia-oxidizing Crenarchaeota in the ocean	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Mesophilic ammonia-oxidizing Archaea (AOA) are abundant in a diverse range of marine environments, including the deep ocean, as revealed by the quantification of the archaeal amoA gene encoding the alpha-subunit of the ammonia monooxygenase. Using two different amoA primer sets, two distinct ecotypes of marine Crenarchaeota Group I (MCGI) were detected in the waters of the tropical Atlantic and the coastal Arctic. The HAC-AOA ecotype (high ammonia concentration AOA) was approximate to 8000 times and 15 times more abundant in the coastal Arctic and the top 300m layer of the open equatorial Atlantic, respectively, than the LAC-AOA (low ammonia concentration AOA) ecotype. In contrast, the LAC-AOA ecotype dominated the lower meso- and bathypelagic waters of the tropical Atlantic (approximate to 50 times more abundant than the HAC-AOA) where ammonia concentrations are well below the detection limit using conventional spectrophotometric or fluorometric methods. Cluster analysis of the sequences from the clone libraries obtained by the two amoA primer sets revealed two phylogenetically distinct clusters. Taken together, our results suggest the presence of two ecotypes of archaeal ammonia oxidizers corresponding to the medium (1.24 mu M on average in the coastal Arctic) and low ammonia concentration (<0.01 mu M) in the shallow and the deep waters respectively.	2013	10.1111/j.1462-2920.2012.02801.x
Kirkham, AR; Lepere, C; Jardillier, LE; Not, F; Bouman, H; Mead, A; Scanlan, DJ	A global perspective on marine photosynthetic picoeukaryote community structure	ISME JOURNAL	A central goal in ecology is to understand the factors affecting the temporal dynamics and spatial distribution of microorganisms and the underlying processes causing differences in community structure and composition. However, little is known in this respect for photosynthetic picoeukaryotes (PPEs), algae that are now recognised as major players in marine CO2 fixation. Here, we analysed dot blot hybridisation and cloning-sequencing data, using the plastid-encoded 16S rRNA gene, from seven research cruises that encompassed all four ocean biomes. We provide insights into global abundance, alpha- and beta-diversity distribution and the environmental factors shaping PPE community structure and composition. At the class level, the most commonly encountered PPEs were Prymnesiophyceae and Chrysophyceae. These taxa displayed complementary distribution patterns, with peak abundances of Prymnesiophyceae and Chrysophyceae in waters of high (25: 1) or low (12: 1) nitrogen: phosphorus (N:P) ratio, respectively. Significant differences in phylogenetic composition of PPEs were demonstrated for higher taxonomic levels between ocean basins, using Unifrac analyses of clone library sequence data. Differences in composition were generally greater between basins (interbasins) than within a basin (intrabasin). These differences were primarily linked to taxonomic variation in the composition of Prymnesiophyceae and Prasinophyceae whereas Chrysophyceae were phylogenetically similar in all libraries. These data provide better knowledge of PPE community structure across the world ocean and are crucial in assessing their evolution and contribution to CO2 fixation, especially in the context of global climate change. The ISME Journal (2013) 7, 922-936; doi:10.1038/ismej.2012.166; published online 31 January 2013	2013	10.1038/ismej.2012.166
Logares, R; Lindstrom, ES; Langenheder, S; Logue, JB; Paterson, H; Laybourn-Parry, J; Rengefors, K; Tranvik, L; Bertilsson, S	Biogeography of bacterial communities exposed to progressive long-term environmental change	ISME JOURNAL	The response of microbial communities to long-term environmental change is poorly understood. Here, we study bacterioplankton communities in a unique system of coastal Antarctic lakes that were exposed to progressive long-term environmental change, using 454 pyrosequencing of the 16S rDNA gene (V3-V4 regions). At the time of formation, most of the studied lakes harbored marine-coastal microbial communities, as they were connected to the sea. During the past 20 000 years, most lakes isolated from the sea, and subsequently they experienced a gradual, but strong, salinity change that eventually developed into a gradient ranging from freshwater (salinity 0) to hypersaline (salinity 100). Our results indicated that present bacterioplankton community composition was strongly correlated with salinity and weakly correlated with geographical distance between lakes. A few abundant taxa were shared between some lakes and coastal marine communities. Nevertheless, lakes contained a large number of taxa that were not detected in the adjacent sea. Abundant and rare taxa within saline communities presented similar biogeography, suggesting that these groups have comparable environmental sensitivity. Habitat specialists and generalists were detected among abundant and rare taxa, with specialists being relatively more abundant at the extremes of the salinity gradient. Altogether, progressive long-term salinity change appears to have promoted the diversification of bacterioplankton communities by modifying the composition of ancestral communities and by allowing the establishment of new taxa. The ISME Journal (2013) 7, 937-948; doi:10.1038/ismej.2012.168; published online 20 December 2012	2013	10.1038/ismej.2012.168
Kuang, JL; Huang, LN; Chen, LX; Hua, ZS; Li, SJ; Hu, M; Li, JT; Shu, WS	Contemporary environmental variation determines microbial diversity patterns in acid mine drainage	ISME JOURNAL	A wide array of microorganisms survive and thrive in extreme environments. However, we know little about the patterns of, and controls over, their large-scale ecological distribution. To this end, we have applied a bar-coded 16S rRNA pyrosequencing technology to explore the phylogenetic differentiation among 59 microbial communities from physically and geochemically diverse acid mine drainage (AMD) sites across Southeast China, revealing for the first time environmental variation as the major factor explaining community differences in these harsh environments. Our data showed that overall microbial diversity estimates, including phylogenetic diversity, phylotype richness and pairwise UniFrac distance, were largely correlated with pH conditions. Furthermore, multivariate regression tree analysis also identified solution pH as a strong predictor of relative lineage abundance. Betaproteobacteria, mostly affiliated with the Ferrovum genus, were explicitly predominant in assemblages under moderate pH conditions, whereas Alphaproteobacteria, Euryarchaeota, Gammaproteobacteria and Nitrospira exhibited a strong adaptation to more acidic environments. Strikingly, such pH-dependent patterns could also be observed in a subsequent comprehensive analysis of the environmental distribution of acidophilic microorganisms based on 16S rRNA gene sequences previously retrieved from globally distributed AMD and associated environments, regardless of the long-distance isolation and the distinct substrate types. Collectively, our results suggest that microbial diversity patterns are better predicted by contemporary environmental variation rather than geographical distance in extreme AMD systems. The ISME Journal (2013) 7, 1038-1050; doi:10.1038/ismej.2012.139; published online 22 November 2012	2013	10.1038/ismej.2012.139
Martinez-Garcia, LB; Garcia, K; Hammer, EC; Vayssieres, A	Mycorrhiza for all: an under-earth revolution	NEW PHYTOLOGIST		2013	10.1111/nph.12239
Lau, SCK; Zhang, R; Brodie, EL; Piceno, YM; Andersen, G; Liu, WT	Biogeography of bacterioplankton in the tropical seawaters of Singapore	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Knowledge about the biogeography of marine bacterioplankton on the global scale in general and in Southeast Asia in particular has been scarce. This study investigated the biogeography of bacterioplankton community in Singapore seawaters. Twelve stations around Singapore island were sampled on different schedules over 1year. Using PCR-DNA fingerprinting, DNA cloning and sequencing, and microarray hybridization of the 16S rRNA genes, we observed clear spatial variations of bacterioplankton diversity within the small area of the Singapore seas. Water samples collected from the Singapore Strait (south) throughout the year were dominated by DNA sequences affiliated with Cyanobacteria and Alphaproteobacteria that were believed to be associated with the influx of water from the open seas in Southeast Asia. On the contrary, water in the relatively polluted Johor Strait (north) were dominated by Betaproteobacteria, Gammaproteobacteria, and Bacteroidetes and that were presumably associated with river discharge and the relatively eutrophic conditions of the waterway. Bacterioplankton diversity was temporally stable, except for the episodic surge of Pseudoalteromonas, associated with algal blooms. Overall, these results provide valuable insights into the diversity of bacterioplankton communities in Singapore seas and the possible influences of hydrological conditions and anthropogenic activities on the dynamics of the communities.	2013	10.1111/1574-6941.12057
Oren, A	Salinibacter: an extremely halophilic bacterium with archaeal properties	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY LETTERS	The existence of large number of a member of the Bacteroidetes in NaCl-saturated brines in saltern crystallizer ponds was first documented in 1999 based on fluorescence in situ hybridization studies. Isolation of the organism and its description as Salinibacter ruber followed soon. It is a rod-shaped, red-orange pigmented, extreme halophile that grows optimally at 2030% salt. The genus is distributed worldwide in hypersaline environments. Today, the genus Salinibacter includes three species, and a somewhat less halophilic relative, Salisaeta longa, has also been documented. Although belonging to the Bacteria, Salinibacter shares many features with the Archaea of the family Halobacteriaceae that live in the same habitat. Both groups use KCl for osmotic adjustment of their cytoplasm, both mainly possess salt-requiring enzymes with a large excess of acidic amino acids, and both contain different retinal pigments: light-driven proton pumps, chloride pumps, and light sensors. Salinibacter produces an unusual carotenoid, salinixanthin that forms a light antenna and transfers energy to the retinal group of xanthorhodopsin, a light-driven proton pump. Other unusual features of Salinibacter and Salisaeta include the presence of novel sulfonolipids (halocapnine derivatives). Salinibacter has become an excellent model for metagenomic, biogeographic, ecological, and evolutionary studies.	2013	10.1111/1574-6968.12094
Lear, G; Washington, V; Neale, M; Case, B; Buckley, H; Lewis, G	The biogeography of stream bacteria	GLOBAL ECOLOGY AND BIOGEOGRAPHY	Aim The extent to which bacterial communities exhibit biogeographic patterns in their distribution remains unclear. We examined the relative influence of factors including geographic distance, latitude, elevation and catchment land use on the distribution and taxon richness of stream bacterial communities across New Zealand. Location Bacterial communities were collected from biofilm growing on submerged rocks in 244 streams. Sample sites spanned a northsouth gradient of over 970km, an elevational gradient of c. 750m and were collected from a variety of catchment types across New Zealand. Methods We used automated ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis, a DNA fingerprinting technique, to characterize the structure and taxon richness of each bacterial community. Key attributes relating to sample location, upstream catchment land use and a suite of additional environmental parameters were collected for every site using GIS procedures. Univariate correlations between measures of bacterial community structure and latitude, elevation and distance were examined. Variance partitioning was then used to assess the relative importance of purely spatial factors versus catchment land use and environmental attributes for determining bacterial community structure and taxon richness. Results Bacterial taxon richness was related to the geographic location of the sample site, being significantly greater at latitudes closer to the equator and reduced at higher elevations. We observed distance decay patterns in bacterial community similarity related to geographic distance and latitudinal distance, but not to elevational distance. Overall, however, bacterial community similarity and taxon richness was more closely related to variability in catchment land use than to climatic variability or geographic location. Main conclusion Our data suggest that stream biofilm communities across New Zealand are more influenced by catchment land use attributes than by dispersal limitation.	2013	10.1111/geb.12046
Joly, M; Attard, E; Sancelme, M; Deguillaume, L; Guilbaud, C; Morris, CE; Amato, P; Delort, AM	Ice nucleation activity of bacteria isolated from cloud water	ATMOSPHERIC ENVIRONMENT	Some Gamma-Proteobacteria can catalyze ice formation thereby potentially contributing to the induction of precipitation in supercooled clouds and subsequently to bacterial deposition. Forty-four bacterial strains from cloud water were screened for their capacity to induce freezing. Seven strains (16%) were active at -8 degrees C or warmer and were identified as Pseudomonas syringae, Xanthomonas spp. and Pseudoxanthomonas sp. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that the P. syringae strains in clouds at the Puy de Dome belonged to clades that are among the most infrequently detected in the environment, while widespread clades were absent suggesting some extent of selection or unusual biogeography of the bacteria at the sampling site. Three strains induced freezing at -3 degrees C while the others nucleated ice at -4 degrees C to -6 degrees C. The freezing profiles revealed that the peaks of activity were centered around -3.5 degrees C, -5 degrees C and/or -8.5 degrees C depending on the strain. The frequency of ice-nuclei (IN) per cell at -6 degrees C was generally below 0.5% and reached up to 4.2% in one strain. We estimated that clouds influenced by vegetated areas would carry between less than 1 and similar to 500 bacterial IN mL(-1) of water active between -3 degrees C and -10 degrees C depending on the season. These data will contribute to modeling the impact of bacterial IN on precipitation at regional scales. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2013	10.1016/j.atmosenv.2013.01.027
Mino, S; Makita, H; Toki, T; Miyazaki, J; Kato, S; Watanabe, H; Imachi, H; Watsuji, T; Nunoura, T; Kojima, S; Sawabe, T; Takai, K; Nakagawa, S	Biogeography of Persephonella in deep-sea hydrothermal vents of the Western Pacific	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Deep-sea hydrothermal vent fields are areas on the seafloor with high biological productivity fueled by microbial chemosynthesis. Members of the Aquificales genus Persephone//a are obligately chemosynthetic bacteria, and appear to be key players in carbon, sulfur, and nitrogen cycles in high temperature habitats at deep-sea vents. Although this group of bacteria has cosmopolitan distribution in deep-sea hydrothermal ecosystem around the world, little is known about their population structure such as intraspecific genomic diversity, distribution pattern, and phenotypic diversity. We developed the multi-locus sequence analysis (MLSA) scheme for their genomic characterization. Sequence variation was determined in five housekeeping genes and one functional gene of 36 Persephone//a hydrogeraphrla strains originated from the Okinawa Trough and the South Mariana Trough (SNT). Although the strains share >98.7% similarities in 16S rRNA gene sequences, MLSA revealed 35 different sequence types (ST), indicating their extensive genomic diversity. A phylogenetic tree inferred from all concatenated gene sequences revealed the clustering of isolates according to the geographic origin. In addition, the phenotypic clustering pattern inferred from whole-cell matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization-time of flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TO F/MS) analysis can be correlated to their MLSA clustering pattern. This study represents the first MLSA combined with phenotypic analysis indicative of allopatric speciation of deep-sea hydrothermal vent bacteria.	2013	10.3389/fmicb.2013.00107
Lin, W; Wang, YZ; Gorby, Y; Nealson, K; Pan, YX	Integrating niche-based process and spatial process in biogeography of magnetotactic bacteria	SCIENTIFIC REPORTS	Microorganisms play key roles in biogeochemical and nutrient cycling in all ecosystems on Earth, yet little is known about the processes controlling their biogeographic distributions. Here we report an investigation of magnetotactic bacteria (MTB) designed to evaluate the roles of niche-based process and spatial process in explaining variation in bacterial communities across large spatial scales. Our results show that both environmental heterogeneity and geographic distance play significant roles in shaping dominant populations of MTB community composition. At the spatial scale in this study, the biogeography of MTB is relatively more influenced by environmental factors than geographic distance, suggesting that local conditions override the effects of dispersal history on structuring MTB community. Of note, we found that the strength of geomagnetic field may influence the biogeography of MTB. We argue that MTB have the potential to serve as a model group to uncover the underlying processes that influence microbial biogeography.	2013	10.1038/srep01643
Dang, HY; Zhou, HX; Zhang, ZN; Yu, ZS; Hua, E; Liu, XS; Jiao, NZ	Molecular Detection of Candidatus Scalindua pacifica and Environmental Responses of Sediment Anammox Bacterial Community in the Bohai Sea, China	PLOS ONE	The Bohai Sea is a large semi-enclosed shallow water basin, which receives extensive river discharges of various terrestrial and anthropogenic materials such as sediments, nutrients and contaminants. How these terrigenous inputs may influence the diversity, community structure, biogeographical distribution, abundance and ecophysiology of the sediment anaerobic ammonium oxidation (anammox) bacteria was unknown. To answer this question, an investigation employing both 16S rRNA and hzo gene biomarkers was carried out. Ca. Scalindua bacteria were predominant in the surface sediments of the Bohai Sea, while non-Scalindua anammox bacteria were also detected in the Yellow River estuary and inner part of Liaodong Bay that received strong riverine and anthropogenic impacts. A novel 16S rRNA gene sequence clade was identified, putatively representing an anammox bacterial new candidate species tentatively named Ca. Scalindua pacifica. Several groups of environmental factors, usually with distinct physicochemical or biogeochemical natures, including general marine and estuarine physicochemical properties, availability of anammox substrates (inorganic N compounds), alternative reductants and oxidants, environmental variations caused by river discharges and associated contaminants such as heavy metals, were identified to likely play important roles in influencing the ecology and biogeochemical functioning of the sediment anammox bacteria. In addition to inorganic N compounds that might play a key role in shaping the anammox microbiota, organic carbon, organic nitrogen, sulfate, sulfide and metals all showed the potentials to participate in the anammox process, releasing the strict dependence of the anammox bacteria upon the direct availability of inorganic N nutrients that might be limiting in certain areas of the Bohai Sea. The importance of inorganic N nutrients and certain other environmental factors to the sediment anammox microbiota suggests that these bacteria were active for the in situ N transforming process and maintained a versatile life style well adapted to the varying environmental conditions of the studied coastal ocean.	2013	10.1371/journal.pone.0061330
Hu, AY; Yang, Z; Yu, CP; Jiao, NZ	Dynamics of Autotrophic Marine Planktonic Thaumarchaeota in the East China Sea	PLOS ONE	The ubiquitous and abundant distribution of ammonia-oxidizing Thaumarchaeota in marine environments is now well documented, and their crucial role in the global nitrogen cycle has been highlighted. However, the potential contribution of Thaumarchaeota in the carbon cycle remains poorly understood. Here we present for the first time a seasonal investigation on the shelf region (bathymetry <= 200 m) of the East China Sea (ECS) involving analysis of both thaumarchaeal 16S rRNA and autotrophy-related genes (acetyl-CoA carboxylase gene, accA). Quantitative PCR results clearly showed a higher abundance of thaumarchaeal 16S and accA genes in late-autumn (November) than summer (August), whereas the diversity and community structure of autotrophic Thaumarchaeota showed no statistically significant difference between different seasons as revealed by thaumarchaeal accA gene clone libraries. Phylogenetic analysis indicated that shallow ecotypes dominated the autotrophic Thaumarchaeota in the ECS shelf (86.3% of total sequences), while a novel non-marine thaumarchaeal accA lineage was identified in the Changjiang estuary in summer (when freshwater plumes become larger) but not in autumn, implying that Changjiang freshwater discharge played a certain role in transporting terrestrial microorganisms to the ECS. Multivariate statistical analysis indicated that the biogeography of the autotrophic Thaumarchaeota in the shelf water of the ECS was influenced by complex hydrographic conditions. However, an in silico comparative analysis suggested that the diversity and abundance of the autotrophic Thaumarchaeota might be biased by the universal thaumarchaeal accA gene primers Cren529F/Cren981R since this primer set is likely to miss some members within particular phylogenetic groups. Collectively, this study improved our understanding of the biogeographic patterns of the autotrophic Thaumarchaeota in temperate coastal waters, and suggested that new accA primers with improved coverage and sensitivity across phylogenetic groups are needed to gain a more thorough understanding of the role of the autotrophic Thaumarchaeota in the global carbon cycle.	2013	10.1371/journal.pone.0061087
Miyashita, NT; Iwanaga, H; Charles, S; Diway, B; Sabang, J; Chong, L	Soil bacterial community structure in five tropical forests in Malaysia and one temperate forest in Japan revealed by pyrosequencing analyses of 16S rRNA gene sequence variation	GENES & GENETIC SYSTEMS	Bacterial community structure was investigated in five tropical rainforests in Sarawak, Malaysia and one temperate forest in Kyoto, Japan. A hierarchical sampling approach was employed, in which soil samples were collected from five sampling-sites within each forest. Pyrosequencing was performed to analyze a total of 493,790 16S rRNA amplicons. Despite differences in aboveground conditions, the composition of bacterial groups was similar across all sampling-sites and forests, with Acidobacteria, Proteobacteria, Verrucomicrobia, Planctomycetes and Bacteroidetes accounting for 90% of all Phyla detected. At higher taxonomic levels, the same taxa were predominant, although there was significant heterogeneity in relative abundance of specific taxa across sampling-sites within one forest or across different forests. In all forests, the level of bacterial diversity, estimated using the Chao1 index, was on the order of 1,000, suggesting that tropical rainforests did not necessarily have a large soil bacterial diversity. The average number of reads per species (OTUs) per sampling-site was 8.0, and more than 40-50% of species were singletons, indicating that most bacterial species occurred infrequently and that few bacterial species achieved high predominance. Approximately 30% of species were specific to one sampling-site within a forest, and 40-60% of species were uniquely detected in one of the six forests studied here. Only 0.2% of species were detected in all forests, while on average 32.1% of species were detected in all sampling-sites within a forest. The results suggested that bacterial communities adapted to specific micro- and macro-environments, but macro-environmental diversity made a larger contribution to total bacterial diversity in forest soil.	2013	
Fautin, DG; Malarky, L; Soberon, J	Latitudinal Diversity of Sea Anemones (Cnidaria: Actiniaria)	BIOLOGICAL BULLETIN	We sought to determine if the global distribution of sea anemones (cnidarian order Actiniaria) conforms to the classic pattern of biogeography-taxon richness at the equator with attenuation toward the poles-a pattern that is derived almost entirely from data on terrestrial plants and animals. We plotted the empirical distribution of species occurrences in 10 degrees bands of latitude based on published information, then, using the Chao2 statistic, inferred the completeness of that inventory. We found the greatest species richness of sea anemones at 30-40 degrees N and S, with lower numbers at tropical latitudes and the fewest species in polar areas. The Chao2 statistic allowed us to infer that the richness pattern we found is not due to particularly poor knowledge of tropical sea anemones. No 10 degrees band of latitude has less than 60% of the theoretical number of species known, but for only about half of them could we reject the null hypothesis (P = 0.05) that information is complete; anemone diversity is best documented at high latitudes. We infer that the 1089 valid species currently known constitute about 70% of the theoretical total of about 1500 species of Actiniaria. The distribution pattern of sea anemone species resembles that of planktonic foraminiferans and benthic marine algae, although planktonic bacteria, marine bivalves, and shallow and deep scleractinian corals show the terrestrial pattern of equatorial richness attenuating with latitude. Sea anemone species richness is complementary to that of scleractinian corals at many scales; our findings affirm it at the global scale.	2013	
Poisot, T; Pequin, B; Gravel, D	High-Throughput Sequencing: A Roadmap Toward Community Ecology	ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION	High-throughput sequencing is becoming increasingly important in microbial ecology, yet it is surprisingly under-used to generate or test biogeographic hypotheses. In this contribution, we highlight how adding these methods to the ecologist toolbox will allow the detection of new patterns, and will help our understanding of the structure and dynamics of diversity. Starting with a review of ecological questions that can be addressed, we move on to the technical and analytical issues that will benefit from an increased collaboration between different disciplines.	2013	10.1002/ece3.508
Barton, AD; Pershing, AJ; Litchman, E; Record, NR; Edwards, KF; Finkel, ZV; Kiorboe, T; Ward, BA	The biogeography of marine plankton traits	ECOLOGY LETTERS	Changes in marine plankton communities driven by environmental variability impact the marine food web and global biogeochemical cycles of carbon and other elements. To predict and assess these community shifts and their consequences, ecologists are increasingly investigating how the functional traits of plankton determine their relative fitness along environmental and biological gradients. Laboratory, field and modelling studies are adopting this trait-based approach to map the biogeography of plankton traits that underlies variations in plankton communities. Here, we review progress towards understanding the regulatory roles of several key plankton functional traits, including cell size, N2-fixation and mixotrophy among phytoplankton, and body size, ontogeny and feeding behaviour for zooplankton. The trait biogeographical approach sheds light on what structures plankton communities in the current ocean, as well as under climate change scenarios, and also allows for finer resolution of community function because community trait composition determines the rates of significant processes, including carbon export. Although understanding of trait biogeography is growing, uncertainties remain that stem, in part, from the paucity of observations describing plankton functional traits. Thus, in addition to recommending widespread adoption of the trait-based approach, we advocate for enhanced collection, standardisation and dissemination of plankton functional trait data.	2013	10.1111/ele.12063
Hamdan, LJ; Coffin, RB; Sikaroodi, M; Greinert, J; Treude, T; Gillevet, PM	Ocean currents shape the microbiome of Arctic marine sediments	ISME JOURNAL	Prokaryote communities were investigated on the seasonally stratified Alaska Beaufort Shelf (ABS). Water and sediment directly underlying water with origin in the Arctic, Pacific or Atlantic oceans were analyzed by pyrosequencing and length heterogeneity-PCR in conjunction with physicochemical and geographic distance data to determine what features structure ABS microbiomes. Distinct bacterial communities were evident in all water masses. Alphaproteobacteria explained similarity in Arctic surface water and Pacific derived water. Deltaproteobacteria were abundant in Atlantic origin water and drove similarity among samples. Most archaeal sequences in water were related to unclassified marine Euryarchaeota. Sediment communities influenced by Pacific and Atlantic water were distinct from each other and pelagic communities. Firmicutes and Chloroflexi were abundant in sediment, although their distribution varied in Atlantic and Pacific influenced sites. Thermoprotei dominated archaea in Pacific influenced sediments and Methanomicrobia dominated in methane-containing Atlantic influenced sediments. Length heterogeneity-PCR data from this study were analyzed with data from methane-containing sediments in other regions. Pacific influenced ABS sediments clustered with Pacific sites from New Zealand and Chilean coastal margins. Atlantic influenced ABS sediments formed another distinct cluster. Density and salinity were significant structuring features on pelagic communities. Porosity co-varied with benthic community structure across sites and methane did not. This study indicates that the origin of water overlying sediments shapes benthic communities locally and globally and that hydrography exerts greater influence on microbial community structure than the availability of methane. The ISME Journal (2013) 7, 685-696; doi:10.1038/ismej.2012.143; published online 29 November 2012	2013	10.1038/ismej.2012.143
Martiny, AC; Treseder, K; Pusch, G	Phylogenetic conservatism of functional traits in microorganisms	ISME JOURNAL	A central question in biology is how biodiversity influences ecosystem functioning. Underlying this is the relationship between organismal phylogeny and the presence of specific functional traits. The relationship is complicated by gene loss and convergent evolution, resulting in the polyphyletic distribution of many traits. In microorganisms, lateral gene transfer can further distort the linkage between phylogeny and the presence of specific functional traits. To identify the phylogenetic conservation of specific traits in microorganisms, we developed a new phylogenetic metric-consenTRAIT-to estimate the clade depth where organisms share a trait. We then analyzed the distribution of 89 functional traits across a broad range of Bacteria and Archaea using genotypic and phenotypic data. A total of 93% of the traits were significantly non-randomly distributed, which suggested that vertical inheritance was generally important for the phylogenetic dispersion of functional traits in microorganisms. Further, traits in microbes were associated with a continuum of trait depths (tau(D)), ranging from a few deep to many shallow clades (average tau(D): 0.101-0.0011 rRNA sequence dissimilarity). Next, we demonstrated that the dispersion and the depth of clades that contain a trait is correlated with the traits complexity. Specifically, complex traits encoded by many genes like photosynthesis and methanogenesis were found in a few deep clusters, whereas the ability to use simple carbon substrates was highly phylogenetically dispersed. On the basis of these results, we propose a framework for predicting the phylogenetic conservatism of functional traits depending on the complexity of the trait. This framework enables predicting how variation in microbial composition may affect microbially-mediated ecosystem processes as well as linking phylogenetic and trait-based patterns of biogeography. The ISME Journal (2013) 7, 830-838; doi:10.1038/ismej.2012.160; published online 13 December 2012	2013	10.1038/ismej.2012.160
Linnenbrink, M; Wang, J; Hardouin, EA; Kunzel, S; Metzler, D; Baines, JF	The role of biogeography in shaping diversity of the intestinal microbiota in house mice	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	The microbial communities inhabiting the mammalian intestinal tract play an important role in diverse aspects of host biology. However, little is known regarding the forces shaping variation in these communities and their influence on host fitness. To shed light on the contributions of host genetics, transmission and geography to diversity in microbial communities between individuals, we performed a survey of intestinal microbial communities in a panel of 121 house mice derived from eight locations across Western Europe using pyrosequencing of the bacterial 16S rRNA gene. The host factors studied included population structure estimated by microsatellite loci and mitochondrial DNA, genetic distance and geography. To determine whether host tissue (mucosa)-associated communities display properties distinct from those of the lumen, both the caecal mucosa and contents were examined. We identified Bacteroides, Robinsoniella and Helicobacter as the most abundant genera in both the caecal content and mucosa-associated communities of wild house mice. Overall, we found geography to be the most significant factor explaining patterns of diversity in the intestinal microbiota, with a comparatively weaker influence of host population structure and genetic distance. Furthermore, the influence of host genetic distance was limited to the mucosa communities, consistent with this environment being more intimately coupled to the host.	2013	10.1111/mec.12206
Nakai, R; Shibuya, E; Justel, A; Rico, E; Quesada, A; Kobayashi, F; Iwasaka, Y; Shi, GY; Amano, Y; Iwatsuki, T; Naganuma, T	Phylogeographic analysis of filterable bacteria with special reference to Rhizobiales strains that occur in cryospheric habitats	ANTARCTIC SCIENCE	Although the lower size limit of microorganisms was previously believed to be c. 0.2 mm, there is evidence for the existence of microorganisms that can pass through 0.2 mm-pore-size filters called ultramicrobacteria or nanobacteria. However, information on the phylogeny and biogeography of these bacteria is limited. We obtained 53 isolates of 0.2 mm-passable bacteria from 31 samples collected at 26 locations worldwide, including the Arctic Svalbard Islands, deserts, and Maritime Antarctica. Phylogenetic analysis of near full-length 16S rRNA gene sequences revealed that 18 of the 53 isolates were <97% homologous with previously cultured isolates, representing potentially novel species. Two isolates (order Rhizobiales) (100% identical) collected from Byers Peninsula, Livingston Island in Maritime Antarctica, were closely related (99.8% similarity) to an isolate collected from intertidal sediments in East Antarctica. In addition, the sequence of this Antarctic isolate showed >= 97% similarity to 901 sequences derived from known isolates and samples collected at geographically disparate locations under various environmental conditions. Interestingly, among 13 sequences showing >= 99% similarity, ten were isolated from cryospheric habitats such as Arctic, Antarctic, and alpine environments. This implies that such Rhizobiales strains occur in the cryospheric regions, however, their abundance and biomass may be scarce depending on the geographic location.	2013	10.1017/S0954102012000831
Amend, AS; Oliver, TA; Amaral-Zettler, LA; Boetius, A; Fuhrman, JA; Horner-Devine, MC; Huse, SM; Welch, DBM; Martiny, AC; Ramette, A; Zinger, L; Sogin, ML; Martiny, JBH	Macroecological patterns of marine bacteria on a global scale	JOURNAL OF BIOGEOGRAPHY	Aim To test whether within-species and among-species patterns of abundance and latitudinal range in marine bacteria resemble those found for macro-organisms, and whether these patterns differ along latitudinal clines. Location Global pelagic marine environments. Methods Taxon-specific sequence abundance and location were retrieved from the open-access V6-rRNA pyrotag sequence data base VAMPS (http://vamps.mbl.edu/), which holds a massive collection of marine bacterial community data sets from the International Census of Marine Microbes sampling effort of global ocean water masses. Data were randomly subsampled to correct for spatial bias and for differences in sampling effort. Results We show that bacterial latitudinal ranges are narrower than expected by chance. When present in both Northern and Southern hemispheres, taxa occupy restricted ranges at similar latitudes on both sides of the equator. A significant and positive relationship exists between sequence abundance and latitudinal range, although this pattern contains a large amount of variance. Abundant taxa in the tropics and in the Northern Hemisphere generally have smaller ranges than those in the Southern Hemisphere. We show that the mean latitudinal range of bacterial taxa increases with latitude, supporting the existence of a Rapoport effect in marine bacterioplankton. Finally, we show that bacterioplankton communities contain a higher proportion of abundant taxa as they approach the poles. Main conclusions Macroecological patterns such as the abundancerange relationship, in general, extend to marine bacteria. However, differences in the shape of these relationships between bacteria and macro-organisms call into question whether the processes and their relative importance in shaping global marine bacteria and macro-organism distributions are the same.	2013	10.1111/jbi.12034
Makhalanyane, TP; Valverde, A; Lacap, DC; Pointing, SB; Tuffin, MI; Cowan, DA	Evidence of species recruitment and development of hot desert hypolithic communities	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY REPORTS	Hypoliths, photosynthetic microbial assemblages found underneath translucent rocks, are widely distributed within the western region of the Namib Desert and other similar environments. Terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) analysis was used to assess the bacterial community structure of hypoliths and surrounding soil (below and adjacent to the hypolithic rock) at a fine scale (10m radius). Multivariate analysis of T-RFs showed that hypolithic and soil communities were structurally distinct. T-RFLP-derived operational taxonomic units were linked to 16S rRNA gene clone libraries. Applying the ecological concept of indicator species, six and nine indicator lineages were identified for hypoliths and soil, respectively. Hypolithic communities were dominated by cyanobacteria affiliated to Pleurocapsales, whereas actinobacteria were prevalent in the soil. These results are consistent with the concept of species sorting and suggest that the bottom of the quartz rocks provides conditions suitable for the development of discrete and demonstrably different microbial assemblages. However, we found strong evidence for neutral assembly processes, as almost 90% of the taxa present in the hypoliths were also detected in the soil. These results suggest that hypolithons do not develop independently from microbial communities found in the surrounding soil, but selectively recruit from local populations.	2013	10.1111/1758-2229.12003
Kamono, A; Meyer, M; Cavalier-Smith, T; Fukui, M; Fiore-Donno, AM	Exploring slime mould diversity in high-altitude forests and grasslands by environmental RNA analysis	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	In spite of the ecological importance of protists, very little data is available on their distribution in soil. This investigation is the first of its kind on what could be the major components of the soil protistan community, the Myxomycetes, or plasmodial slime-moulds, a monophyletic class in the phylum Amoebozoa. Myxomycetes have a complex life cycle culminating in the formation of mainly macroscopic fruiting bodies, highly variable in shape and colour, which can be found in every terrestrial biome. Despite their prevalence, they are paradoxically absent from environmental DNA sampling studies. We obtained myxomycete SSU rRNA gene sequences from soil-extracted RNAs using specific primers. Soil samples were collected in three mountain ranges (France, Scotland and Japan). Our study revealed an unexpectedly high diversity of dark-spored Myxomycetes, with the recovery of 74 phylotypes. Of these, 74% had <98% identity with known sequences, showing a hidden diversity; there was little overlap between localities, implying biogeographical patterns. Few phylotypes were dominant and many were unique, consistent with the rare biosphere phenomenon. Our study provides the first detailed insight into the community composition of this ecologically important group of protists, establishing means for future studies of their distribution, abundance and ecology.	2013	10.1111/1574-6941.12042
Gibbons, SM; Caporaso, JG; Pirrung, M; Field, D; Knight, R; Gilbert, JA	Evidence for a persistent microbial seed bank throughout the global ocean	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	Do bacterial taxa demonstrate clear endemism, like macroorganisms, or can one sites bacterial community recapture the total phylogenetic diversity of the worlds oceans? Here we compare a deep bacterial community characterization from one site in the English Channel (L4-DeepSeq) with 356 datasets from the International Census of Marine Microbes (ICoMM) taken from around the globe (ranging from marine pelagic and sediment samples to sponge-associated environments). At the L4-DeepSeq site, increasing sequencing depth uncovers greater phylogenetic overlap with the global ICoMM data. This site contained 31.7-66.2% of operational taxonomic units identified in a given ICoMM biome. Extrapolation of this overlap suggests that 1.93 x 10(11) sequences from the L4 site would capture all ICoMM bacterial phylogenetic diversity. Current technology trends suggest this limit may be attainable within 3 y. These results strongly suggest the marine biosphere maintains a previously undetected, persistent microbial seed bank.	2013	10.1073/pnas.1217767110
Jezbera, J; Jezberova, J; Kasalicky, V; Simek, K; Hahn, MW	Patterns of Limnohabitans Microdiversity across a Large Set of Freshwater Habitats as Revealed by Reverse Line Blot Hybridization	PLOS ONE	Among abundant freshwater Betaproteobacteria, only few groups are considered to be of central ecological importance. One of them is the well-studied genus Limnohabitans and mainly its R-BT subcluster, investigated previously mainly by fluorescence in situ hybridization methods. We designed, based on sequences from a large Limnohabitans culture collection, 18 RLBH (Reverse Line Blot Hybridization) probes specific for different groups within the genus Limnohabitans by targeting diagnostic sequences on their 16 S-23 S rRNA ITS regions. The developed probes covered in sum 92% of the available isolates. This set of probes was applied to environmental DNA originating from 161 different European standing freshwater habitats to reveal the microdiversity (intra-genus) patterns of the Limnohabitans genus along a pH gradient. Investigated habitats differed in various physicochemical parameters, and represented a very broad range of standing freshwater habitats. The Limnohabitans microdiversity, assessed as number of RLBH-defined groups detected, increased significantly along the gradient of rising pH of habitats. 14 out of 18 probes returned detection signals that allowed predictions on the distribution of distinct Limnohabitans groups. Most probe-defined Limnohabitans groups showed preferences for alkaline habitats, one for acidic, and some seemed to lack preferences. Complete niche-separation was indicated for some of the probe-targeted groups. Moreover, bimodal distributions observed for some groups of Limnohabitans, suggested further niche separation between genotypes within the same probe-defined group. Statistical analyses suggested that different environmental parameters such as pH, conductivity, oxygen and altitude influenced the distribution of distinct groups. The results of our study do not support the hypothesis that the wide ecological distribution of Limnohabitans bacteria in standing freshwater habitats results from generalist adaptations of these bacteria. Instead, our observations suggest that the genus Limnohabitans, as well as its R-BT subgroup, represent ecologically heterogeneous taxa, which underwent pronounced ecological diversification.	2013	10.1371/journal.pone.0058527
Meadow, JF; Bateman, AC; Herkert, KM; OConnor, TK; Green, JL	Significant changes in the skin microbiome mediated by the sport of roller derby	PEERJ	Diverse bacterial communities live on and in human skin. These complex communities vary by skin location on the body, over time, between individuals, and between geographic regions. Culture-based studies have shown that human to human and human to surface contact mediates the dispersal of pathogens, yet little is currently known about the drivers of bacterial community assembly patterns on human skin. We hypothesized that participation in a sport involving skin to skin contact would result in detectable shifts in skin bacterial community composition. We conducted a study during a flat track roller derby tournament, and found that teammates shared distinct skin microbial communities before and after playing against another team, but that opposing teams bacterial communities converged during the course of a roller derby bout. Our results are consistent with the hypothesis that the human skin microbiome shifts in composition during activities involving human to human contact, and that contact sports provide an ideal setting in which to evaluate dispersal of microorganisms between people.	2013	10.7717/peerj.53
Hollants, J; Leliaert, F; Verbruggen, H; Willems, A; De Clerck, O	Permanent residents or temporary lodgers: characterizing intracellular bacterial communities in the siphonous green alga Bryopsis	PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY B-BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES	The ecological success of giant celled, siphonous green algae in coastal habitats has repeatedly been linked to endophytic bacteria living within the cytoplasm of the hosts. Yet, very little is known about the relative importance of evolutionary and ecological factors controlling the intracellular bacterial flora of these seaweeds. Using the marine alga Bryopsis (Bryopsidales, Chlorophyta) as a model, we explore the diversity of the intracellular bacterial communities and investigate whether their composition is controlled by ecological and biogeographic factors rather than the evolutionary history of the host. Using a combination of 16S rDNA clone libraries and denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis analyses, we show that Bryopsis harbours a mixture of relatively few but phylogenetically diverse bacterial species. Variation partitioning analyses show a strong impact of local environmental factors on the presence of Rickettsia and Mycoplasma in their association with Bryopsis. The presence of Flavobacteriaceae and Bacteroidetes, on the other hand, reflects a predominant imprint of host evolutionary history, suggesting that these bacteria are more specialized in their association. The results highlight the importance of interpreting the presence of individual bacterial phylotypes in the light of ecological and evolutionary principles such as phylogenetic niche conservatism to understand complex endobiotic communities and the parameters shaping them.	2013	10.1098/rspb.2012.2659
Suleiman, AKA; Manoeli, L; Boldo, JT; Pereira, MG; Roesch, LFW	Shifts in soil bacterial community after eight years of land-use change	SYSTEMATIC AND APPLIED MICROBIOLOGY	The interaction between plants, soil and microorganisms is considered to be the major driver of ecosystem functions and any modification of plant cover and/or soil properties might affect the microbial structure, which, in turn, will influence ecological processes. Assuming that soil properties are the major drivers of soil bacterial diversity and structure within the same soil type, it can be postulated whether plant cover causes significant shifts in soil bacterial community composition. To address this question, this study used 16S rRNA pyrosequencing to detect differences in diversity, composition and/or relative abundance of bacterial taxa from an area covered by pristine forest, as well as eight-year-old grassland surrounded by the same forest. It was shown that a total of 69% of the operational taxonomic units (OTUs) were shared between environments. Overall, forest and grassland samples presented the same diversity and the clustering analysis did not show the occurrence of very distinctive bacterial communities between environments. However, 11 OTUs were detected in statistically significant higher abundance in the forest samples but in lower abundance in the grassland samples, whereas 12 OTUs occurred in statistically significant higher abundance in the grassland samples but in lower abundance in the forest samples. The results suggested the prevalence of a resilient core microbial community that did not suffer any change related to land use, soil type or edaphic conditions. The results illustrated that the history of land use might influence present-day community structure. (C) 2012 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.	2013	10.1016/j.syapm.2012.10.007
McGuire, KL; Payne, SG; Palmer, MI; Gillikin, CM; Keefe, D; Kim, SJ; Gedallovich, SM; Discenza, J; Rangamannar, R; Koshner, JA; Massmann, AL; Orazi, G; Essene, A; Leff, JW; Fierer, N	Digging the New York City Skyline: Soil Fungal Communities in Green Roofs and City Parks	PLOS ONE	In urban environments, green roofs provide a number of benefits, including decreased urban heat island effects and reduced energy costs for buildings. However, little research has been done on the non-plant biota associated with green roofs, which likely affect their functionality. For the current study, we evaluated whether or not green roofs planted with two native plant communities in New York City functioned as habitats for soil fungal communities, and compared fungal communities in green roof growing media to soil microbial composition in five city parks, including Central Park and the High Line. Ten replicate roofs were sampled one year after planting; three of these roofs were more intensively sampled and compared to nearby city parks. Using Illumina sequencing of the fungal ITS region we found that green roofs supported a diverse fungal community, with numerous taxa belonging to fungal groups capable of surviving in disturbed and polluted habitats. Across roofs, there was significant biogeographical clustering of fungal communities, indicating that community assembly of roof microbes across the greater New York City area is locally variable. Green roof fungal communities were compositionally distinct from city parks and only 54% of the green roof taxa were also found in the park soils. Phospholipid fatty acid analysis revealed that park soils had greater microbial biomass and higher bacterial to fungal ratios than green roof substrates. City park soils were also more enriched with heavy metals, had lower pH, and lower quantities of total bases (Ca, K, and Mg) compared to green roof substrates. While fungal communities were compositionally distinct across green roofs, they did not differentiate by plant community. Together, these results suggest that fungi living in the growing medium of green roofs may be an underestimated component of these biotic systems functioning to support some of the valued ecological services of green roofs.	2013	10.1371/journal.pone.0058020
Rojas, C; Stephenson, SL	Effect of forest disturbance on myxomycete assemblages in the southwestern Peruvian Amazon	FUNGAL DIVERSITY	Although the effects of microenvironmental factors on distribution patterns in myxomycetes have been investigated, studies of the responses of this group of organisms to different regimes of forest disturbance are relatively few in number. In an effort to understand the implications of forest fragmentation and habitat loss on myxomycetes, the project described herein was carried out at the Los Amigos Biological Station in southeastern Peru. The structure and composition of assemblages of myxomycetes were investigated in relation to three different forest types and climatic periods in the area of study. An analysis of the most commonly recorded substrates was carried out as well. The results suggested that habitat loss, through differences in forest structure, was the factor determining most of the differences in fruiting body abundance of myxomycetes among forest types. In addition, a switch in the ecological strategy of dispersal seemed to be an important factor accounting for differences in the fruiting body abundance and structure of assemblages of myxomycetes between collecting periods. This study provides evidence indicating that for microbial assemblages to maintain the balance of functional interactions within a particular forest ecosystem, the conservation of the forests themselves should be considered.	2013	10.1007/s13225-012-0181-x
Estrada-Torres, A; de Basanta, DW; Lado, C	Biogeographic patterns of the myxomycete biota of the Americas using a parsimony analysis of endemicity	FUNGAL DIVERSITY	Myxomycetes are microorganisms frequently considered to be of cosmopolitan distribution, however as studies in unexplored areas have intensified, more information has become available on the patterns of distribution of these organisms, but no historical or cladistic biogeographic approaches have been applied to understand such patterns. In this study a parsimony analysis of endemicity (PAE) was used in order to generate a preliminary hypothesis on the biogeographic relationships of 13 American areas in which a well-known myxomycete biota exists. In general terms the hypotheses of the relationship between the myxomycete assemblages of areas used in this study agree with those reported for other groups of organisms. They appear to show that a historical-geographic pattern influences the distribution of myxomycetes as much as environmental factors. Three main clades were found in the analysis, with the first one including the two subantarctic localities, the second one representing the South American transition zone and the last one including all the Neotropical and Nearctic areas, but arranged into two subclades, one with the arid areas and the other with the tropical and temperate humid areas. Each clade or subclade in the cladogram is supported by the presence of several morphospecies, some of which appear to represent endemic species restricted to specific geographic areas. The results of this analysis are proposed as a working hypothesis that can perhaps be supported in the future with new data from other complementary regions of America or with more intense surveys in the areas already explored. They are inconsistent with the hypothesis of cosmopolitan distribution for these microorganisms, as they appear to indicate groups of species that are restricted to certain geographic areas, some of which may be endemic, such as those from the subantarctic forests of South America, those found exclusively in the South American arid areas or those that have been recently described from arid areas of North America.	2013	10.1007/s13225-012-0209-2
Flores, CO; Valverde, S; Weitz, JS	Multi-scale structure and geographic drivers of cross-infection within marine bacteria and phages	ISME JOURNAL	Bacteriophages are the most abundant biological life forms on Earth. However, relatively little is known regarding which bacteriophages infect and exploit which bacteria. A recent meta-analysis showed that empirically measured phage-bacteria infection networks are often significantly nested, on average, and not modular. A perfectly nested network is one in which phages can be ordered from specialist to generalist such that the host range of a given phage is a subset of the host range of the subsequent phage in the ordering. The same meta-analysis hypothesized that modularity, in which groups of phages specialize on distinct groups of hosts, should emerge at larger geographic and/or taxonomic scales. In this paper, we evaluate the largest known phage-bacteria interaction data set, representing the interaction of 215 phage types with 286 host types sampled from geographically separated sites in the Atlantic Ocean. We find that this interaction network is highly modular. In addition, some of the modules identified in this data set are nested or contain submodules, indicating the presence of multi-scale structure, as hypothesized in the earlier meta-analysis. We examine the role of geography in driving these patterns and find evidence that the host range of phages and the phage permissibility of bacteria is driven, in part, by geographic separation. We conclude by discussing approaches to disentangle the roles of ecology and evolution in driving complex patterns of interaction between phages and bacteria. The ISME Journal (2013) 7, 520-532; doi:10.1038/ismej.2012.135; published online 22 November 2012	2013	10.1038/ismej.2012.135
Bates, ST; Clemente, JC; Flores, GE; Walters, WA; Parfrey, LW; Knight, R; Fierer, N	Global biogeography of highly diverse protistan communities in soil	ISME JOURNAL	Protists are ubiquitous members of soil microbial communities, but the structure of these communities, and the factors that influence their diversity, are poorly understood. We used barcoded pyrosequencing to survey comprehensively the diversity of soil protists from 40 sites across a broad geographic range that represent a variety of biome types, from tropical forests to deserts. In addition to taxa known to be dominant in soil, including Cercozoa and Ciliophora, we found high relative abundances of groups such as Apicomplexa and Dinophyceae that have not previously been recognized as being important components of soil microbial communities. Soil protistan communities were highly diverse, approaching the extreme diversity of their bacterial counterparts across the same sites. Like bacterial taxa, protistan taxa were not globally distributed, and the composition of these communities diverged considerably across large geographic distances. However, soil protistan and bacterial communities exhibit very different global-scale biogeographical patterns, with protistan communities strongly structured by climatic conditions that regulate annual soil moisture availability. The ISME Journal (2013) 7, 652-659; doi:10.1038/ismej.2012.147; published online 13 December 2012	2013	10.1038/ismej.2012.147
Malaterre, C	Microbial diversity and the lower-limit problem of biodiversity	BIOLOGY & PHILOSOPHY	Science is now studying biodiversity on a massive scale. These studies are occurring not just at the scale of larger plants and animals, but also at the scale of minute entities such as bacteria and viruses. This expansion has led to the development of a specific sub-field of microbial diversity. In this paper, I investigate how microbial diversity faces two of the classical issues encountered by the concept of biodiversity: the issues of defining the units of biodiversity and of choosing a mathematical measure of diversity. I also show that the extension of the scope of biodiversity to microbial entities such as viruses and many other not-clearly-alive entities raises yet another foundational issue: that of defining a lower-limit of biodiversity.	2013	10.1007/s10539-012-9356-9
McFrederick, QS; Taylor, DR	Evolutionary history of nematodes associated with sweat bees	MOLECULAR PHYLOGENETICS AND EVOLUTION	Organisms that live in close association with other organisms make up a large part of the worlds diversity. One driver of this diversity is the evolution of host-species specificity, which can occur via reproductive isolation following a host-switch or, given the correct circumstances, via cospeciation. In this study, we explored the diversity and evolutionary history of Acrostichus nematodes that are associated with halictid bees in North America. First, we conducted surveys of bees in Virginia, and found six halictid species that host Acrostichus. To test the hypothesis of cospeciation, we constructed phylogenetic hypotheses of Acrostichus based on three genes. We found Acrostichus purl and Acrostichus halicti to be species complexes comprising cryptic, host-specific species. Although several nodes in the host and symbiont phylogenies were congruent and tests for cospeciation were significant, the hosts biogeography, the apparent patchiness of the association across the hosts phylogeny, and the amount of evolution in the nematode sequence suggested a mixture of cospeciation, host switching, and extinction events instead of strict cospeciation. Cospeciation can explain the relationships between Ac. purl and its augochlorine hosts, but colonization of Halictus hosts is more likely than cospeciation. The nematodes are vertically transmitted, but sexual transmission is also likely. Both of these transmission modes may explain host-species specificity and congruent bee and nematode phylogenies. Additionally, all halictid hosts come from eusocial or socially polymorphic lineages, suggesting that sociality may be a factor in the suitability of hosts for Acrostichus. (C) 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.	2013	10.1016/j.ympev.2012.11.007
Zhaxybayeva, O; Stepanauskas, R; Mohan, NR; Papke, RT	Cell sorting analysis of geographically separated hypersaline environments	EXTREMOPHILES	Biogeography of microbial populations remains to be poorly understood, and a novel technique of single cell sorting promises a new level of resolution for microbial diversity studies. Using single cell sorting, we compared saturated NaCl brine environments (32-35 %) of the South Bay Salt Works in Chula Vista in California (USA) and Santa Pola saltern near Alicante (Spain). Although some overlap in community composition was detected, both samples were significantly different and included previously undiscovered 16S rRNA sequences. The community from Chula Vista saltern had a large bacterial fraction, which consisted of diverse Bacteroidetes and Proteobacteria. In contrast, Archaea dominated Santa Polas community and its bacterial fraction consisted of the previously known Salinibacter lineages. The recently reported group of halophilic Archaea, Nanohaloarchaea, was detected at both sites. We demonstrate that cell sorting is a useful technique for analysis of halophilic microbial communities, and is capable of identifying yet unknown or divergent lineages. Furthermore, we argue that observed differences in community composition reflect restricted dispersal between sites, a likely mechanism for diversification of halophilic microorganisms.	2013	10.1007/s00792-013-0514-z
Laflamme, M; Darroch, SAF; Tweedt, SM; Peterson, KJ; Erwin, DH	The end of the Ediacara biota: Extinction, biotic replacement, or Cheshire Cat?	GONDWANA RESEARCH	The Ediacaran-Cambrian transition signals a drastic change in both diversity and ecosystem construction. The Ediacara biota (consisting of various metazoan stem lineages in addition to extinct eukaryotic clades) disappears, and is replaced by more familiar Cambrian and Paleozoic metazoan groups. Although metazoans are present in the Ediacaran, their ecological contribution is dwarfed by Ediacaran-type clades of uncertain phylogenetic affinities, while Ediacaran-type morphologies are virtually non-existent in younger assemblages. Three alternative hypotheses have been advanced to explain this dramatic change at, or near, the Ediacaran-Cambrian boundary: 1) mass extinction of most Ediacaran forms; 2) biotic replacement, with early Cambrian organisms eliminating Ediacaran forms; and 3) a Cheshire Cat model, with Ediacaran forms gradually disappearing from the fossil record (but not necessarily going extinct) as a result of the elimination of unique preservational settings, primarily microbial matgrounds, that dominated the Ediacaran. To evaluate these proposed explanations for the biotic changes observed at the Ediacaran-Cambrian transition, environmental drivers leading to global mass extinction are compared to biological factors such as predation and ecosystem engineering. We explore temporal and biogeographic distributions of Ediacaran taxa combined with evaluations of functional guild ranges throughout the Ediacaran. The paucity of temporally-resolved localities with diverse Ediacaran assemblages, combined with difficulties associated with differences in taphonomic regimes before, during, and after the transition hinders this evaluation. Nonetheless, the demonstration of geographic and niche range changes offers a novel means of assessing the downfall of Ediacara-type taxa at the hands of emerging metazoans, which we hypothesize to be most likely due to the indirect ecological impact metazoans had upon the Ediacarans. Ultimately, the combination of studies on ecosystem construction, biostratigraphy, and biogeography showcases the magnitude of the transition at the Ediacaran Cambrian boundary. (C) 2012 International Association for Gondwana Research. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2013	10.1016/j.gr.2012.11.004
Hurwitz, BL; Sullivan, MB	The Pacific Ocean Virome (POV): A Marine Viral Metagenomic Dataset and Associated Protein Clusters for Quantitative Viral Ecology	PLOS ONE	Bacteria and their viruses (phage) are fundamental drivers of many ecosystem processes including global biogeochemistry and horizontal gene transfer. While databases and resources for studying function in uncultured bacterial communities are relatively advanced, many fewer exist for their viral counterparts. The issue is largely technical in that the majority (often 90%) of viral sequences are functionally unknown making viruses a virtually untapped resource of functional and physiological information. Here, we provide a community resource that organizes this unknown sequence space into 27 K high confidence protein clusters using 32 viral metagenomes from four biogeographic regions in the Pacific Ocean that vary by season, depth, and proximity to land, and include some of the first deep pelagic ocean viral metagenomes. These protein clusters more than double currently available viral protein clusters, including those from environmental datasets. Further, a protein cluster guided analysis of functional diversity revealed that richness decreased (i) from deep to surface waters, (ii) from winter to summer, (iii) and with distance from shore in surface waters only. These data provide a framework from which to draw on for future metadata-enabled functional inquiries of the vast viral unknown.	2013	10.1371/journal.pone.0057355
DeLeon-Rodriguez, N; Lathem, TL; Rodriguez-R, LM; Barazesh, JM; Anderson, BE; Beyersdorf, AJ; Ziemba, LD; Bergin, M; Nenes, A; Konstantinidis, KT	Microbiome of the upper troposphere: Species composition and prevalence, effects of tropical storms, and atmospheric implications	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	The composition and prevalence of microorganisms in the middle-to-upper troposphere (8-15 km altitude) and their role in aerosol-cloud-precipitation interactions represent important, unresolved questions for biological and atmospheric science. In particular, airborne microorganisms above the oceans remain essentially uncharacterized, as most work to date is restricted to samples taken near the Earths surface. Here we report on the microbiome of low-and high-altitude air masses sampled onboard the National Aeronautics and Space Administration DC-8 platform during the 2010 Genesis and Rapid Intensification Processes campaign in the Caribbean Sea. The samples were collected in cloudy and cloud-free air masses before, during, and after two major tropical hurricanes, Earl and Karl. Quantitative PCR and microscopy revealed that viable bacterial cells represented on average around 20% of the total particles in the 0.25- to 1-mu m diameter range and were at least an order of magnitude more abundant than fungal cells, suggesting that bacteria represent an important and underestimated fraction of micrometer-sized atmospheric aerosols. The samples from the two hurricanes were characterized by significantly different bacterial communities, revealing that hurricanes aerosolize a large amount of new cells. Nonetheless, 17 bacterial taxa, including taxa that are known to use C1-C4 carbon compounds present in the atmosphere, were found in all samples, indicating that these organisms possess traits that allow survival in the troposphere. The findings presented here suggest that the microbiome is a dynamic and underappreciated aspect of the upper troposphere with potentially important impacts on the hydrological cycle, clouds, and climate.	2013	10.1073/pnas.1212089110
Sul, WJ; Oliver, TA; Ducklow, HW; Amaral-Zettler, LA; Sogin, ML	Marine bacteria exhibit a bipolar distribution	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	The microbial cosmopolitan dispersion hypothesis often invoked to explain distribution patterns driven by high connectivity of oceanographic water masses and widespread dispersal ability has never been rigorously tested. By using a global marine bacterial dataset and iterative matrix randomization simulation, we show that marine bacteria exhibit a significantly greater dispersal limitation than predicted by our null model using the everything is everywhere tenet with no dispersal limitation scenario. Specifically, marine bacteria displayed bipolar distributions (i.e., species occurring exclusively at both poles and nowhere else) significantly less often than in the null model. Furthermore, we observed fewer taxa present in both hemispheres but more taxa present only in a single hemisphere than expected under the null model. Each of these trends diverged further from the null expectation as the compared habitats became more geographically distant but more environmentally similar. Our meta-analysis supported a latitudinal gradient in bacterial diversity with higher richness at lower latitudes, but decreased richness toward the poles. Bacteria in the tropics also demonstrated narrower latitudinal ranges at lower latitudes and relatively larger ranges in higher latitudes, conforming to the controversial macroecological pattern of the Rapoport rule. Collectively, our findings suggest that bacteria follow biogeographic patterns more typical of macroscopic organisms, and that dispersal limitation, not just environmental selection, likely plays an important role. Distributions of microbes that deliver critical ecosystemservices, particularly those in polar regions, may be vulnerable to the same impacts that environmental stressors, climate warming, and degradation in habitat quality are having on biodiversity in animal and plant species.	2013	10.1073/pnas.1212424110
Biddle, JF	Microbial eukaryotes: extending observations North	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY		2013	10.3389/fmicb.2013.00010
