AU	TI	SO	AB	PY	DI
Shen, CC; Xiong, JB; Zhang, HY; Feng, YZ; Lin, XG; Li, XY; Liang, WJ; Chu, HY	Soil pH drives the spatial distribution of bacterial communities along elevation on Changbai Mountain	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	The elevational patterns of diversity for plants and animals have been well established over the past century. However, it is unclear whether there is a general elevational distribution pattern for microbes. Changbai Mountain is one of few well conserved natural ecosystems, where the vertical distribution of vegetation is known to mirror the vegetation horizontal zonation from temperate to frigid zones on the Eurasian continent. Here, we present a comprehensive analysis of soil bacterial community composition and diversity along six elevations representing six typical vegetation types from forest to alpine tundra using a bar-coded pyrosequencing technique. The bacterial communities differed dramatically along elevations (vegetation types), and the community composition was significantly correlated with soil pH, carbon/nitrogen ratio (C/N), moisture or total organic carbon (TOC), respectively. Phylogenetic diversity was positively correlated with soil pH (P = 0.024), while phylotype richness was positively correlated with soil pH (P = 0.004), total nitrogen (TN) (P = 0.030), and negatively correlated with C/N ratio (P = 0.021). Our results emphasize that pH is a better predictor of soil bacterial elevational distribution and also suggest that vegetation types may indirectly affect soil bacterial elevational distribution through altering soil C and N status. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2013	10.1016/j.soilbio.2012.07.013
Morse, JL; Bernhardt, ES	Using N-15 tracers to estimate N2O and N-2 emissions from nitrification and denitrification in coastal plain wetlands under contrasting land-uses	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	Microbial nitrification and denitrification both can emit nitrous oxide (N2O), a major greenhouse gas, and the relative contribution of each pathway depends strongly on soil moisture conditions. We conducted a stable isotope tracer experiment to determine the contribution of nitrification and denitrification to N2O and dinitrogen (N-2) fluxes in coastal plain wetlands, and to determine the response of these processes to changing soil moisture. We added N-15-labeled nitrate (NOD or ammonium (NH4+) to intact soil cores collected from an agricultural field, a restored wetland, and a preserved forested wetland, and subjected the cores to a drying or wetting hydrologic manipulation. Across all soils and treatments, the combined fluxes of N2O and N2 ranged widely, between 0.23 and 2900 mu g N m(-2) h(-1), and N2O accounted for as little as 0% to as much as 43% of the total gaseous nitrogen (N) fluxes. Fluxes of both gases increased with increasing soil moisture in all soils and tracer treatments, but the relative enhancement of the two gases varied by soil type and N source. The N2O yields [N2O/(N2O+ N-2)] derived from both nitrification and denitrification were low (1-3%) in five of eight soils in each tracer experiment. Surprisingly, nitrification-derived N2O yields were highest (13-31%) in soils with the highest organic matter and soil moisture (restored wetland under simulated rain and forested wetland under drained and simulated rain), while denitrification-derived N2O yields (12-36%) were highest under simulated rain in the two mineral soils (agricultural field and mineral soils of the restored wetland), and under drained conditions in the forested wetland. These results are consistent with field-measured N2O fluxes in our previous work in these sites. We suggest that nitrification plays an important and underappreciated role in contributing to N2O fluxes from freshwater wetlands with often-saturated, acid-organic soils, while incomplete denitrification is the likely source of N2O following rain events in agricultural soils in southeastern U.S. coastal plain wetlands. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2013	10.1016/j.soilbio.2012.07.025
Williams, MA; Jangid, K; Shanmugam, SG; Whitman, WB	Bacterial communities in soil mimic patterns of vegetative succession and ecosystem climax but are resilient to change between seasons	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	Organism succession during ecosystem development has been researched for aboveground plant communities, however, the associated patterns of change in below-ground microbial communities are less described. In 2008, a study was initiated along a developmental sand-dune soil chronosequence bordering northern Lake Michigan near Wilderness Park (WP). It was hypothesized that soil bacterial communities would follow a pattern of change that is associated with soil, plant, and ecosystem development. This study included 5 replicate sites along 9 soils (n = 45) ranging in age from 105 to 4010 years since deposition. Soil bacterial community composition and diversity were studied using bacterial tag-encoded FLX amplicon pyrosequencing of the 16S rRNA gene. Bray-Curtis ordination indicated that bacterial community assembly changed along the developmental soil and plant gradient. The changes were not affected by seasonal differences, despite likely differences in plant root C (e.g. exudates), temperature, and water availability in soil. Soil base cations (Ca, Mg) and pH declined, showing log-linear correlations with soil age (r similar to 0.83, 0.84 and 0.81; P < 0.01). Bacterial diversity (Simpsons 1/D) declined rapidly during the initial stages of soil development ( similar to 105-450 y) and thereafter (>450 y) did not change. Turnover of plant taxa was also more rapid early during ecosystem development and correlated with bacterial community structural change (P < 0.000001; r = 0.56). It is hypothesized that plants help to drive pedogenic change during early (<450 y) soil development (e.g. pH decline, cation leaching) which drive selection of soil bacterial communities. In mature soils (similar to 450-4000 y), resilient and stable soil bacterial community structures developed, mimicking steady-state climax communities that were observed during latter stages of primary plant succession. These relationships point to possible feedbacks between plant and bacterial communities during ecosystem development. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2013	10.1016/j.soilbio.2012.08.023
Colares, GB; Melo, VMM	Relating microbial community structure and environmental variables in mangrove sediments inside Rhizophora mangle L. habitats	APPLIED SOIL ECOLOGY	This study aimed to access the structure of microbial communities in sediments in the root zone of the red mangrove (Rhizophora mangle) in three sites with an increasing distance from the sea inside a mangrove forest in two distinct periods (dry and wet seasons) using denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE). These data were correlated to environmental variables and sediments characteristics by using redundancy analysis (RDA) which revealed that the distribution of the microbial communities is significantly (p<0.05) influenced by the silt-clay percentages for both Bacteria and Archaea and organic matter content significantly influences the distribution of Archaea. The archaeal community also exhibited an annual clustering pattern. The sites had only 30% and 35% of similarity of bacterial and archaeal communities, respectively, and this could be interpreted as being the core microbiome of R. mangle. Thus the spatial distribution of microbial communities inside the red mangrove habitats seems to be primarily controlled by the abiotic variables of each habitat. (C) 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2013	10.1016/j.apsoil.2012.12.004
Ranjard, L; Dequiedt, S; Prevost-Boure, NC; Thioulouse, J; Saby, NPA; Lelievre, M; Maron, PA; Morin, FER; Bispo, A; Jolivet, C; Arrouays, D; Lemanceau, P	Turnover of soil bacterial diversity driven by wide-scale environmental heterogeneity	NATURE COMMUNICATIONS	Spatial scaling and determinism of the wide-scale distribution of macroorganism diversity has been largely demonstrated over a century. For microorganisms, and especially for soil bacteria, this fundamental question requires more thorough investigation, as little information has been reported to date. Here by applying the taxa-area relationship to the largest spatially explicit soil sampling available in France (2,085 soils, area covered similar to 5.3 x 10(5) km(2)) and developing an innovative evaluation of the habitat-area relationship, we show that the turnover rate of bacterial diversity in soils on a wide scale is highly significant and strongly correlated with the turnover rate of soil habitat. As the diversity of micro-and macroorganisms appears to be driven by similar processes (dispersal and selection), maintaining diverse and spatially structured habitats is essential for soil biological patrimony and the resulting ecosystem services.	2013	10.1038/ncomms2431
Toner, BM; Lesniewski, RA; Marlow, JJ; Briscoe, LJ; Santelli, CM; Bach, W; Orcutt, BN; Edwards, KJ	Mineralogy Drives Bacterial Biogeography of Hydrothermally Inactive Seafloor Sulfide Deposits	GEOMICROBIOLOGY JOURNAL	Mid-ocean ridge hydrothermal venting creates sulfide deposits containing gradients in mineralogy, fluid chemistry, and temperature. Even when hydrothermal circulation ceases, sulfides are known to host microbial communities. The relationship between mineralogy and microbial community composition in low-temperature, rock-hosted systems has not been resolved at any spatial scale, local or global. To examine the hypothesis that geochemistry of seafloor deposits is a dominant parameter driving environmental pressure for bacterial communities at low-temperature, the shared community membership, richness, and structure was measured using 16S rRNA gene sequences. The focus of the study was on hydrothermally inactive seafloor deposits from multiple locations within one deposit (e.g., single extinct chimney), within one vent field (intra-vent field), and among globally distributed vent fields from three ocean basins (inter-vent field). Distinct mineral substrates, such as hydrothermally inactive sulfides versus basalts, host different communities at low temperature in spite of close geographic proximity and contact with the same hydrothermally influenced deep-sea water. Furthermore, bacterial communities inhabiting hydrothermally inactive sulfide deposits from geographically distant locations cluster together in community cladograms to the exclusion of other deep-sea substrates and settings. From this study, we conclude that at low temperature, mineralogy was a more important variable determining microbial community composition than geographic factors. Supplemental materials are available for this article. Go to the publishers online edition of Geomicrobiology Journal to view the supplemental file.	2013	10.1080/01490451.2012.688925
Waters, JM; Fraser, CI; Hewitt, GM	Founder takes all: density-dependent processes structure biodversity	TRENDS IN ECOLOGY & EVOLUTION	Density-dependent processes play a key role in the spatial structuring of biodiversity. Specifically, interrelated demographic processes, such as gene surfing, high-density blocking, and competitive exclusion, can generate striking geographic contrasts in the distributions of genes and species. Here, we propose that well-studied evolutionary and ecological biogeographic patterns of postglacial recolonization, progressive island colonization, microbial sectoring, and even the Out of Africa pattern of human expansion, are fundamentally similar, underpinned by a founder takes all density-dependent principle. Additionally, we hypothesize that older historic constraints of density-dependent processes are seen today in the dramatic biogeographic shifts that occur in response to human-mediated extinction events, whereby surviving lineages rapidly expand their ranges to replace extinct sister taxa.	2013	10.1016/j.tree.2012.08.024
Smith, DJ; Timonen, HJ; Jaffe, DA; Griffin, DW; Birmele, MN; Perry, KD; Ward, PD; Roberts, MS	Intercontinental Dispersal of Bacteria and Archaea by Transpacific Winds	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Microorganisms are abundant in the upper atmosphere, particularly downwind of arid regions, where winds can mobilize large amounts of topsoil and dust. However, the challenge of collecting samples from the upper atmosphere and reliance upon culture-based characterization methods have prevented a comprehensive understanding of globally dispersed airborne microbes. In spring 2011 at the Mt. Bachelor Observatory in North America (2.8 km above sea level), we captured enough microbial biomass in two transpacific air plumes to permit a microarray analysis using 16S rRNA genes. Thousands of distinct bacterial taxa spanning a wide range of phyla and surface environments were detected before, during, and after each Asian long-range transport event. Interestingly, the transpacific plumes delivered higher concentrations of taxa already in the background air (particularly Proteobacteria, Actinobacteria, and Firmicutes). While some bacterial families and a few marine archaea appeared for the first and only time during the plumes, the microbial community compositions were similar, despite the unique transport histories of the air masses. It seems plausible, when coupled with atmospheric modeling and chemical analysis, that microbial biogeography can be used to pinpoint the source of intercontinental dust plumes. Given the degree of richness measured in our study, the overall contribution of Asian aerosols to microbial species in North American air warrants additional investigation.	2013	10.1128/AEM.03029-12
Flores, GE; Bates, ST; Caporaso, JG; Lauber, CL; Leff, JW; Knight, R; Fierer, N	Diversity, distribution and sources of bacteria in residential kitchens	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Bacteria readily colonize kitchen surfaces, and the exchange of microbes between humans and the kitchen environment can impact human health. However, we have a limited understanding of the overall diversity of these communities, how they differ across surfaces and sources of bacteria to kitchen surfaces. Here we used high-throughput sequencing of the 16S rRNA gene to explore biogeographical patterns of bacteria across >?80 surfaces within the kitchens of each of four households. In total, 34 bacterial and two archaeal phyla were identified, with most sequences belonging to the Actinobacteria, Bacteroidetes, Firmicutes and Proteobacteria. Genera known to contain common food-borne pathogens were low in abundance but broadly distributed throughout the kitchens, with different taxa exhibiting distinct distribution patterns. The most diverse communities were associated with infrequently cleaned surfaces such as fans above stoves, refrigerator/freezer door seals and floors. In contrast, the least diverse communities were observed in and around sinks, which were dominated by biofilm-forming Gram-negative lineages. Community composition was influenced by conditions on individual surfaces, usage patterns and dispersal from source environments. Human skin was the primary source of bacteria across all kitchen surfaces, with contributions from food and faucet water dominating in a few specific locations. This study demonstrates that diverse bacterial communities are widely distributed in residential kitchens and that the composition of these communities is often predictable. These results also illustrate the ease with which human- and food-associated bacteria can be transferred in residential settings to kitchen surfaces.	2013	10.1111/1462-2920.12036
Ling, ZX; Liu, X; Wang, YZ; Li, LJ; Xiang, C	Pyrosequencing Analysis of the Salivary Microbiota of Healthy Chinese Children and Adults	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Describing the biogeography of bacterial communities within the human body is critical for establishing healthy baselines from which to detect differences associated with diseases. Little is known, however, about the baseline of normal salivary microbiota from healthy Chinese children and adults. With parallel barcoded 454 pyrosequencing, the bacterial diversity and richness of saliva were thoroughly investigated from ten healthy Chinese children and adults. The overall taxonomic distribution of our metagenomic data demonstrated that the diversity of salivary microbiota from children was more complex than adults, while the composition and richness of salivary microbiota were similar in children and adults, especially for predominant bacteria. A large number of bacterial phylotypes were shared by healthy children and adults, indicating the existence of a core salivary microbiome. In children and adults, the vast majority of sequences in salivary microbiota belonged to Streptococcus, Prevotella, Neisseria, Haemophilus, Porphyromonas, Gemella, Rothia, Granulicatella, Fusobacterium, Actinomyces, Veillonella, and Aggregatibacter, which constituted the major components of normal salivary microbiota. With the exception of Actinomyces, the other seven non-predominant bacteria including Moraxella, Leptotrichia, Peptostreptococcus, Eubacterium, and members of Neisseriaceae, Flavobacteriaceae, and SR1 showed significant differences between children and adults (p < 0.05). We first established the framework of normal salivary microbiota from healthy Chinese children and adults. Our data represent a critical step for determining the diversity of healthy microbiota in Chinese children and adults, and our data established a platform for additional large-scale studies focusing on the interactions between health and diseases in the future.	2013	10.1007/s00248-012-0123-x
Zufall, RA; Dimond, KL; Doerder, FP	Restricted distribution and limited gene flow in the model ciliate Tetrahymena thermophila	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	The biogeography of microbial eukaryotes has long been debated, but few phylogeographic data have been available to assess whether protists tend to have ubiquitous or endemic distributions. We addressed this issue in the ciliate Tetrahymena thermophila, a highly successful model system in cell and molecular biology. We found that this species has a distribution that is restricted to the Eastern United States, with high diversity in the northeast and low diversity across the rest of its distribution. We find high levels of population subdivision, low rates of migration and significant isolation by distance, supporting the moderate endemicity model of protist biogeography. This restricted gene flow may be a result of small population size, which would reduce the probability of migration events, or the inability to establish after migration. This work lays the foundation for T. thermophila to become a valuable model system for studying population biology.	2013	10.1111/mec.12066
Feinstein, LM; Blackwood, CB	The spatial scaling of saprotrophic fungal beta diversity in decomposing leaves	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	Assembly of fungal communities remains poorly understood in part because of the daunting range of spatial scales that may be involved in this process. Here, we use individual leaves as a natural sampling unit, comprising spatially distinct habitat and/or resource patches with unique histories and suites of resources. Spatial patterns in fungal beta diversity were tested for consistency with the metacommunity paradigms of species sorting and neutral dynamics. Thirty senesced leaves were collected from the forest floor (O horizon) in replicate upland forest, riparian forest and vernal pool habitats. We quantified spatial distance between leaves, and fungal community composition was assayed by terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism. Significant distance-decay relationships were detected at all but one upland site. This is the first study where changes in fungal community composition were quantified across discrete adjacent habitat patches, providing evidence that fungal distance decay is operational at a scale of centimetres. Although leaves of differing lignin contents were sampled from each site, leaf type was not consistently important in explaining variation in fungal community composition. However, depth of a leaf within the forest floor significantly influenced community composition at five of six sites. Environmental heterogeneity associated with depth could include moisture gradients, relative influence of soil or spore colonization, and impact of forest floor biotic community (i.e. collembola and earthworms). Because the influence of spatial distance and depth on fungal community composition could not be disentangled, both species-sorting and neutral processes may be embedded within the distance-decay relationships that we found.	2013	10.1111/mec.12160
Azovsky, A; Mazei, Y	Do microbes have macroecology? Large-scale patterns in the diversity and distribution of marine benthic ciliates	GLOBAL ECOLOGY AND BIOGEOGRAPHY	Aim The biogeography and global distribution of protists has long been disputed, with two primary, opposing views. To test these two sets of views in greater detail, we have compiled the available data for marine benthic ciliates and assessed the general patterns of their diversity and distribution compared with Metazoa. Location World-wide. Methods A comprehensive database (1342 species, over 350 sources) was used to analyse the diversity, distribution, species occurrences and range size distribution of free-living ciliates that inhabit marine sediments in 17 geographical regions. Results Twenty-five per cent of the species have been found in a single region only, whereas 18% are widespread (they occur in more than half the regions covering both hemispheres). Only 57% of regional faunas are endemic, which is much lower than for macroorganisms. Regional diversity depends neither on total area nor on coastline length and does not show any obvious latitudinal trends, but correlates highly with the investigation effort expended in a region and (negatively) with the average salinity. A comparison of species composition reveals distinctions between the Arctic Area (the White, Barents and Kara seas), Laurasian Area (north Atlantic, north Pacific and European seas), Gondwanian Area (Southern Ocean) and the Antarctic. No clear geographical correlations are found for faunistic composition at the genus or family levels. There is the tendency to narrow the latitudinal ranges for species found at high latitudes (reversal of Rapoports rule). Main conclusions Undersampling and data insufficiency are the key factors affecting the observed diversity and distribution of microorganisms. Nevertheless, marine benthic ciliates demonstrate certain patterns that generally agree with the moderate endemicity model (Foissner, 2004, 2008), but consistently contradict the regularities commonly observed for multicellular taxa. Thus, ciliates do have a biogeography, but their macroecological patterns may be different in some respects from that of macroorganisms.	2013	10.1111/j.1466-8238.2012.00776.x
Filker, S; Stock, A; Breiner, HW; Edgcomb, V; Orsi, W; Yakimov, MM; Stoeck, T	Environmental selection of protistan plankton communities in hypersaline anoxic deep-sea basins, Eastern Mediterranean Sea	MICROBIOLOGYOPEN	High salt concentrations, absence of light, anoxia, and high hydrostatic pressure make deep hypersaline anoxic basins (DHABs) in the Eastern Mediterranean Sea one of the most polyextreme habitats on Earth. Taking advantage of the unique chemical characteristics of these basins, we tested the effect of environmental selection and geographic distance on the structure of protistan communities. Terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) analyses were performed on water samples from the brines and seawater/brine interfaces of five basins: Discovery, Urania, Thetis, Tyro, and Medee. Using statistical analyses, we calculated the partitioning of diversity among the ten individual terminal restriction fragment (T-RF) profiles, based on peak abundance and peak incidence. While a significant distance effect on spatial protistan patterns was not detected, hydrochemical gradients emerged as strong dispersal barriers that likely lead to environmental selection in the DHAB protistan plankton communities. We identified sodium, magnesium, sulfate, and oxygen playing in concerto as dominant environmental drivers for the structuring of protistan plankton communities in the Eastern Mediterranean DHABs.	2013	10.1002/mbo3.56
Kim, M; Boldgiv, B; Singh, D; Chun, J; Lkhagva, A; Adams, JM	Structure of soil bacterial communities in relation to environmental variables in a semi-arid region of Mongolia	JOURNAL OF ARID ENVIRONMENTS	Patterns in soil bacterial communities, and the factors that determine them, have been little explored in arid and semi-arid environments. It is unclear to what extent the diversity and community composition of arid-land soil bacterial communities follow vegetation habitats, or conversely other relatively independent soil variables. It is also unclear whether the factors (e.g. pH) that contribute to variation in bacterial communities in some moister environments also operate on a local scale in semi-arid environments. To identify the main factors in shaping bacterial community structure in semi-arid environments, we sampled a mosaic of habitats under different vegetation, landscape and edaphic conditions in central Mongolia, including steppe, forest-steppe, and abandoned wheat field. Soil DNA was extracted and pyrosequenced for 16S rRNA gene identification. NMDS results showed that bacterial community structures are slightly different from one habitat to another. However, the similarity between communities both within and between habitats is determined more strongly by soil texture than by vegetation type and drainage conditions. Moreover, the relative abundances of certain phyla are correlated with specific soil properties such as salinity and soil texture, in ways that have not previously been found in semi-arid environments. Actinobacteria, for example, show a negative correlation with salinity and Bacteroidetes display a positive relationship with percentage silt and clay. It also appears that the most important environmental variables (soil texture and salinity) affecting the bacterial community within this semi-arid environment are different from those found in moister environments, with no detectable effect of pH. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2013	10.1016/j.jaridenv.2012.09.014
Ilinsky, Y	Coevolution of Drosophila melanogaster mtDNA and Wolbachia Genotypes	PLOS ONE	Maternally inherited microorganisms can influence the mtDNA pattern of variation in hosts. This influence is driven by selection among symbionts and can cause the frequency of mitochondrial variants in the population to eventually increase or decrease. Wolbachia infection is common and widespread in Drosophila melanogaster populations. We compared genetic variability of D. melanogaster mitotypes with Wolbachia genotypes among isofemale lines associated with different geographic locations and time intervals to study coevolution of the mtDNA and Wolbachia. Phylogenetic analysis of D. melanogaster mtDNA revealed two clades diverged in Africa, each associated with one of the two Wolbachia genotype groups. No evidence of horizontal transmission of Wolbachia between maternal lineages has been found. All the mtDNA variants that occur in infected isofemale lines are found in uninfected isofemale lines and vice versa, which is indicative of a recent loss of infection from some maternal fly lineages and confirms a significant role of Wolbachia in the D. melanogaster mtDNA pattern of variation. Finally, we present a comparative analysis of biogeographic distribution of D. melanogaster mitotypes all over the world.	2013	10.1371/journal.pone.0054373
Rodrigues, JLM; Pellizari, VH; Mueller, R; Baek, K; Jesus, ED; Paula, FS; Mirza, B; Hamaoui, GS; Tsai, SM; Feigl, B; Tiedje, JM; Bohannan, BJM; Nusslein, K	Conversion of the Amazon rainforest to agriculture results in biotic homogenization of soil bacterial communities	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	The Amazon rainforest is the Earths largest reservoir of plant and animal diversity, and it has been subjected to especially high rates of land use change, primarily to cattle pasture. This conversion has had a strongly negative effect on biological diversity, reducing the number of plant and animal species and homogenizing communities. We report here that microbial biodiversity also responds strongly to conversion of the Amazon rainforest, but in a manner different from plants and animals. Local taxonomic and phylogenetic diversity of soil bacteria increases after conversion, but communities become more similar across space. This homogenization is driven by the loss of forest soil bacteria with restricted ranges (endemics) and results in a net loss of diversity. This study shows homogenization of microbial communities in response to human activities. Given that soil microbes represent the majority of biodiversity in terrestrial ecosystems and are intimately involved in ecosystem functions, we argue that microbial biodiversity loss should be taken into account when assessing the impact of land use change in tropical forests.	2013	10.1073/pnas.1220608110
Hahnke, RL; Probian, C; Fuchs, BM; Harder, J	Variations in pelagic bacterial communities in the North Atlantic Ocean coincide with water bodies	AQUATIC MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Physical and chemical characteristics define oceanographic regions. The potential for a distinct biogeography of bacterial communities in these oceanic provinces was studied in epipelagic and upper mesopelagic water bodies of the North Atlantic Ocean by terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) analysis of bacterial 16S rRNA genes and flow cytometry. Water samples from 67 degrees N to 34 degrees N along the 30 degrees W meridian contained epipelagic populations of Synechococcus in the north and Prochlorococcus in the south. Bacterial communities were generally more diverse in phototrophic layers above the pycnocline. Communities significantly differed in the epipelagic zone along the latitudinal transect through the different oceanic provinces and between the epipelagic and the upper mesopelagic zone. Differences in the T-RFLP patterns coincided well with differences in the physico-chemical conditions of the sampling sites. Changes in bacterial communities were traced to characteristic terminal restriction fragments (TRFs). In silico assignments of phylogenetic groups to TRFs, e.g. populations of high-light and low-light ecotypes of Prochlorococcus, supported our T-RFLP analysis of bacterial communities. Distinct bacterial communities in water bodies of the North Atlantic Ocean hosted different bacterial populations, which may serve as biological markers for oceanic provinces.	2013	10.3354/ame01668
Selama, O; James, P; Nateche, F; Wellington, EMH; Hacene, H	The World Bacterial Biogeography and Biodiversity through Databases: A Case Study of NCBI Nucleotide Database and GBIF Database	BIOMED RESEARCH INTERNATIONAL	Databases are an essential tool and resource within the field of bioinformatics. The primary aim of this study was to generate an overview of global bacterial biodiversity and biogeography using available data from the two largest public online databases, NCBI Nucleotide and GBIF. The secondary aim was to highlight the contribution each geographic area has to each database. The basis for data analysis of this study was the metadata provided by both databases, mainly, the taxonomy and the geographical area origin of isolation of the microorganism (record). These were directly obtained from GBIF through the online interface, while E-utilities and Python were used in combination with a programmatic web service access to obtain data from the NCBI Nucleotide Database. Results indicate that the American continent, and more specifically the USA, is the top contributor, while Africa and Antarctica are less well represented. This highlights the imbalance of exploration within these areas rather than any reduction in biodiversity. This study describes a novel approach to generating global scale patterns of bacterial biodiversity and biogeography and indicates that the Proteobacteria are the most abundant and widely distributed phylum within both databases.	2013	10.1155/2013/240175
Chang, FH; Marquis, EC; Chang, CW; Gong, GC; Hsieh, CH	Scaling of growth rate and mortality with size and its consequence on size spectra of natural microphytoplankton assemblages in the East China Sea	BIOGEOSCIENCES	Allometric scaling of body size versus growth rate and mortality has been suggested to be a universal macroecological pattern, as described by the metabolic theory of ecology (MTE). However, whether such scaling generally holds in natural assemblages remains debated. Here, we test the hypothesis that the size-specific growth rate and grazing mortality scale with the body size with an exponent of -1/4 after temperature correction, as MTE predicts. To do so, we couple a dilution experiment with the FlowCAM imaging system to obtain size-specific growth rates and grazing mortality of natural microphytoplankton assemblages in the East China Sea. This novel approach allows us to achieve highly resolved size-specific measurements that would be very difficult to obtain in traditional size-fractionated measurements using filters. Our results do not support the MTE prediction. On average, the size-specific growth rates and grazing mortality scale almost isometrically with body size (with scaling exponent similar to 0.1). However, this finding contains high uncertainty, as the size-scaling exponent varies substantially among assemblages. The fact that size-scaling exponent varies among assemblages prompts us to further investigate how the variation of size-specific growth rate and grazing mortality can interact to determine the microphytoplankton size structure, described by normalized biomass size spectrum (NBSS), among assemblages. We test whether the variation of microphytoplankton NBSS slopes is determined by (1) differential grazing mortality of small versus large individuals, (2) differential growth rate of small versus large individuals, or (3) combinations of these scenarios. Our results indicate that the ratio of the grazing mortality of the large size category to that of the small size category best explains the variation of NBSS slopes across environments, suggesting that higher grazing mortality of large microphytoplankton may release the small phytoplankton from grazing, which in turn leads to a steeper NBSS slope. This study contributes to understanding the relative importance of bottom-up versus top-down control in shaping microphytoplankton size structure.	2013	10.5194/bg-10-5267-2013
Dakora, FD	Biogeographic Distribution, Nodulation and Nutritional Attributes of Underutilized Indigenous African Legumes	II INTERNATIONAL SYMPOSIUM ON UNDERUTILIZED PLANT SPECIES: CROPS FOR THE FUTURE - BEYOND FOOD SECURITY	In Africa, Vigna unguiculata L. Walp. and Vigna subterranea L. Vedc. are the only cultivated indigenous food legumes, yet there are 14 Vigna species currently used as food security crops in the continent. The tubers of V. lobatifolia, V. reticulata, V. fischeri, V. vexillata, V. ambacensis, V. marina and V. stenophylla are harvested as food, as well as the grain of V. reticuleata, V. vexillata, V. juncea, V. gracilis, V. membranacea and V. radiata. Tylosema esculentum (an unimproved legume native to southern Africa) produces grain with 30-39% protein and 43% oil compared to the highly improved soybean with 38-40% protein and groundnut with 48% oil. Nutritionally, the tubers of Sphenostylis stenocarpa, V. lobatifolia and V. vexillata also contain up to 15% protein, a level six times that of cassava and three times that of Irish potato or sweet potato. Except for T. esculentum, these underutilized legumes all nodulate freely with soil bacteria and fix N-2. Vigna subterranea and Macrotyloma geocarpum, for example, can obtain 51-67% of their N nutrition from symbiotic fixation. As a result, these underutilized legumes serve as high-protein forage/fodder for livestock and wildlife. This review summarizes the potential of under-exploited African legumes as food/medicinal crops, forage and covercrops.	2013	
Mapelli, F; Varela, MM; Barbato, M; Alvarino, R; Hernando-Morales, V; Fusi, M; Alvarez, M; Merlino, G; Daffonchio, D; Teira, E; Borin, S	Biogeography of planktonic bacterial communities across the whole Mediterranean Sea (vol 9, pg 585, 2013)	OCEAN SCIENCE		2013	10.5194/os-9-681-2013
Lefort, T; Gasol, JM	Global-scale distributions of marine surface bacterioplankton groups along gradients of salinity, temperature, and chlorophyll: a meta-analysis of fluorescence in situ hybridization studies	AQUATIC MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	We used literature data on marine bacterial (sub) group abundances, as determined by fluorescence in situ hybridization, to test whether the ecological variability of the different subgroups was similar to that of the bacterial community as a whole. Patterns of 6 major groups are described (Alpha-, Beta-, Gammaproteobacteria and Bacteroidetes, as well as Rhodobacteraceae and SAR11) and related to environmental variables such as chlorophyll a (chl a) concentration, salinity, and temperature, distinguishing between coastal or open-ocean environments. Coastal ecosystems exhibited higher relative abundances (average % of DAPI counts) of Bacteroidetes (23 %), Beta- (11 %) and Gammaproteobacteria (10 %), and Rhodobacteraceae (6%), while significantly higher contributions of Alphaproteobacteria and SAR11 (32 %) were on average enumerated offshore. Multiple regression analyses showed significant explanatory power of chl a and temperature on total and SAR11 absolute abundances (expressed as cells ml(-1)), and of chl a and salinity levels on absolute abundances of Betaproteobacteria and Rhodobacteraceae. Other analyses revealed increasing contribution of Gammaproteobacteria for increasing temperatures and high temperature avoidance for Betaproteobacteria. Significantly different log-log regression slopes were found between bacterial group absolute abundances and chl a concentration at a global scale, ranging from 0.13 +/- 0.04 (SE) for SAR11 to 0.53 +/- 0.08 for Betaproteobacteria. The different patterns observed for the different groups, in coastal and open-ocean environments, suggest different niche preferences by each group as well as a coherent response to environmental factors.	2013	10.3354/ame01643
Olsen, LM; Van Ardelan, M; Hewes, CD; Holm-Hansen, O; Reiss, C; Bizsel, N; Sakshaug, E; Vadstein, O	Microbial biogeography during austral summer 2007 in the surface waters around the South Shetland Islands, Antarctica	AQUATIC MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Recent studies have concluded that different water bodies in the ocean can contain different microbial communities. The goal of the present study was to determine if biogeographic patterns are present for aquatic microbes in waters which meet around the South Shetland Islands (SSI), Antarctica. Prokaryotic and eukaryotic marine microbial communities were monitored during the 2007 austral summer by use of polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) of small subunit ribosomal DNA. Hydrographic properties, nutrients and chlorophyll a were also measured. There was an onshore to offshore gradient in temperature, salinity and iron concentration and a unimodal distribution of chlorophyll a concentration in relation to the middle of this gradient that occurred near the SSI. The differences in microbial community structure among stations in the studied area were correlated with both geographical distance and environmental factors. For eukaryotes, the correlation was strongest for environment, whereas it was strongest for geographical distance for the prokaryotes. Eukaryotic and prokaryotic community structures were highly correlated. Surface water from the Weddell Sea had a different community of eukaryotes than the water in the Antarctic Circumpolar Current in the Drake Passage, whereas the prokaryotic community was not significantly different. The area close to the SSI where the 2 water types mix had the highest chlorophyll concentration and significantly different communities of eukaryotes and prokaryotes from both of the inflowing water types. These results suggest that the prokaryote community structure was more affected by productivity than by environmental variables.	2013	10.3354/ame01650
Kaya, M	Terrestrial bdelloid rotifers from Erzurum (eastern part of Turkey)	TURKISH JOURNAL OF ZOOLOGY	There has been a growing interest in studies of the macroecology and biogeography of microorganisms (smaller than 2 mm) in recent years; however, knowledge of the diversity patterns of these organisms is inadequate. The reason for this lack of knowledge is that faunistic studies of these microorganisms have not been extensive enough to cover all areas of the world. Bdelloid rotifers of 200-600 mu m in size are among these microorganisms. In many countries, few studies have been conducted on bdelloid fauna thus far. With only one detailed study, Turkey can be counted as one of those countries. In this present work, 30 samples belonging to 4 substrates (mosses on concrete, mosses on rock, mosses on the ground, and lichens on trees) were collected in an eastern province of Turkey (Erzurum) at a high altitude (1761-1965 m) and examined. In total, 3000 individual (100 for each sample x 30 samples = 3000) were investigated, and 30 taxa were recorded. Twelve of them are new records for Turkey, of which 10 are new records for Asian fauna.	2013	10.3906/zoo-1211-32
Mapelli, F; Varela, MM; Barbato, M; Alvarino, R; Fusi, M; Alvarez, M; Merlino, G; Daffonchio, D; Borin, S	Biogeography of planktonic bacterial communities across the whole Mediterranean Sea	OCEAN SCIENCE	Bacterial population distribution in the Mediterranean Sea has been mainly studied by considering small geographical areas or specific phylogenetic groups. The present study is a molecular microbiology investigation aimed to identify the environmental factors driving total bacterioplankton community composition of seawater samples collected along a transect covering the whole Mediterranean Sea. We performed automated ribosomal intergenic sequence analysis (ARISA) and microscope evaluation of prokaryotic abundance of seawater sampled across both vertical profiles and longitudinal transects in the whole basin. Prokaryotic abundance decreased with depth at all the stations and presented similar values in epi-, meso- and bathypelagic layers across the whole Mediterranean Sea. However, peculiar bacterial assemblages were selected along a longitudinal transect in the epipelagic layers of the eastern and western sub-basins. Vertical differences of the bacterial communities were observed only when considering the epi- and bathypelagic waters, while the study of the structure of bacterial communities at a finer scale across the water column displayed higher variability at the intermediate layers. Nonetheless, different physico-chemical factors were significantly related to the distribution of bacterial populations, both according to geographic position and down the water column in the whole Mediterranean Sea. These results demonstrated that bacterial assemblages are putatively correlated to different water masses of the complex hydrographical systems of the eastern and western Mediterranean sub-basins.	2013	10.5194/os-9-585-2013
Amano-Sato, C; Akiyama, S; Uchida, M; Shimada, K; Utsumi, M	Archaeal distribution and abundance in water masses of the Arctic Ocean, Pacific sector	AQUATIC MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Marine planktonic Archaea have been recently recognized as an ecologically important component of marine prokaryotic biomass in the worlds oceans. Their abundance and metabolism are closely connected with marine geochemical cycling. We evaluated the distribution of planktonic Archaea in the Pacific sector of the Arctic Ocean using fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) with catalyzed reporter deposition (CARD-FISH) and performed statistical analyses using data for archaeal abundance and geochemical variables. The relative abundance of Thaumarchaeota generally increased with depth, and euryarchaeal abundance was the lowest of all planktonic prokaryotes. Multiple regression analysis showed that the thaumarchaeal relative abundance was negatively correlated with ammonium and dissolved oxygen concentrations and chlorophyll fluorescence. Canonical correspondence analysis showed that archaeal distributions differed with oceanographic water masses; in particular, Thaumarchaeota were abundant from the halocline layer to deep water, where salinity was higher and most nutrients were depleted. However, at several stations on the East Siberian Sea side of the study area and along the Northwind Ridge, Thaumarchaeota and Bacteria were proportionally very abundant at the bottom in association with higher nutrient conditions. The abundance of Euryarchaeota was high (>1.0 x 10(5) cells ml(-1)) at one of our stations in the Chukchi Sea and was positively correlated with temperature and ammonium concentration, suggesting that there could be hot spots with increased euryarchaeal abundance in the Arctic Ocean.	2013	10.3354/ame01624
Pachiadaki, MG; Kormas, KA	Interconnectivity vs. isolation of prokaryotic communities in European deep-sea mud volcanoes	BIOGEOSCIENCES	During the past two decades, European cold seep ecosystems have attracted the scientific interest and to date there are several studies which have investigated the community structure and biodiversity of individual sites. In order to gain a better insight into the biology, biodiversity, and biogeography of seep-associated microbial communities along Europes continental margins, a comparative approach was applied in the present work. By exploiting the publicly available data on 16S rRNA gene sequences retrieved from sediments of the Hakon Mosby mud volcano, Gulf of Cadiz and the eastern Mediterranean mud volcanoes/pockmarks (Anaximander area and Nile Fan), we investigated the prokaryotic biological components connecting these geographically isolated systems. The construction of interaction networks for both archaeal and bacterial shared operational taxonomic units (OTUs) among the different sites, revealed the presence of persistent OTUs, which can be considered as key-players. One archaeal OTU (HQ588641) belonging to the ANME-3 group and one delta-Proteobacteria (HQ588562) were found in all five investigated areas. Other Archaea OTUs shared between four sites or less, belonged to the ANME-2c, -2a, MBG-D, -B and Thaumarchaeota. All other shared Bacteria belonged to the delta- and gamma-Proteobacteria, with the exception of one JS1 affiliate OTU. The distribution of the majority of the shared OTUs seems to be restricted in cold seeps, mud volcanoes and other marine methane-rich environments. Although the investigated sites were connected through a small number of OTUs, these microorganisms hold central ecophysiological roles in these sediments, namely methane-and sulfur-mediated mineralization.	2013	10.5194/bg-10-2821-2013
Zhou, YJ; Gao, HY; Mihindukulasuriya, KA; La Rosa, PS; Wylie, KM; Vishnivetskaya, T; Podar, M; Warner, B; Tarr, PI; Nelson, DE; Fortenberry, JD; Holland, MJ; Burr, SE; Shannon, WD; Sodergren, E; Weinstock, GM	Biogeography of the ecosystems of the healthy human body	GENOME BIOLOGY	Background: Characterizing the biogeography of the microbiome of healthy humans is essential for understanding microbial associated diseases. Previous studies mainly focused on a single body habitat from a limited set of subjects. Here, we analyzed one of the largest microbiome datasets to date and generated a biogeographical map that annotates the biodiversity, spatial relationships, and temporal stability of 22 habitats from 279 healthy humans. Results: We identified 929 genera from more than 24 million 16S rRNA gene sequences of 22 habitats, and we provide a baseline of inter-subject variation for healthy adults. The oral habitat has the most stable microbiota with the highest alpha diversity, while the skin and vaginal microbiota are less stable and show lower alpha diversity. The level of biodiversity in one habitat is independent of the biodiversity of other habitats in the same individual. The abundances of a given genus at a body site in which it dominates do not correlate with the abundances at body sites where it is not dominant. Additionally, we observed the human microbiota exhibit both cosmopolitan and endemic features. Finally, comparing datasets of different projects revealed a project-based clustering pattern, emphasizing the significance of standardization of metagenomic studies. Conclusions: The data presented here extend the definition of the human microbiome by providing a more complete and accurate picture of human microbiome biogeography, addressing questions best answered by a large dataset of subjects and body sites that are deeply sampled by sequencing.	2013	10.1186/gb-2013-14-1-r1
Fontanez, KM; Cavanaugh, CM	Phylogenetic relationships of hydrothermal vent mussels (Bathymodiolinae) and their symbionts	MARINE ECOLOGY PROGRESS SERIES	Deep-sea mussels of the subfamily Bathymodiolinae (Bivalvia, Pteriomorphia, Mytilidae) are dominant members of hydrothermal vent communities across the globe and have been found within every known hydrothermal vent biogeographic province. Thus, the apparent rarity of bathymodiolines at vents of the Juan de Fuca Ridge (JdF) is a notable exception. We examined mussels collected from the JdF over a span of 18 yr to clarify the classifications of mussel hosts and their symbiotic bacteria, and the relationships between sparsely distributed individuals. Several specimens, previously classified as Bathymodiolus and Adipicola, were reassigned as Adipicola sp. JdF based on new phylogenetic evidence and previous morphological studies. Adipicola sp. JdF are the most deeply branching members of Adipicola identified to date. Ultrastructural, molecular phylogenetic, and stable carbon isotope analyses indicated that Adipicola sp. JdF mussels harbor bacterial chemoautotrophic symbionts that appear to be extracellular and that are closely related to symbionts of other bathymodioline hosts. This study demonstrates that a sparsely distributed, yet cohesive, population of Adipicola has inhabited JdF vents for at least the past 18 yr. Moreover, the presence of extracellular symbionts in Adipicola sp. JdF at hydrothermal vents stands in contrast to the evolutionary patterns proposed for bathymodiolines in general. Adipicola sp. JdF represents an exception to the trend of bathymodiolines harboring extracellular symbionts living exclusively in shallow marine wood and bone habitats (<1000 m), indicating that bathymodiolines are more flexible with regard to habitat and symbiont characteristics than previously considered.	2013	10.3354/meps10086
Liu, L; Huang, XL; Zhang, RL; Jiang, LY; Qiao, GX	Phylogenetic congruence between Mollitrichosiphum (Aphididae: Greenideinae) and Buchnera indicates insect-bacteria parallel evolution	SYSTEMATIC ENTOMOLOGY	We wanted to test whether Mollitrichosiphum, an aphid genus with life cycles on subtropical woody host plants, and Buchnera, the primary endosymbiont of aphids, evolve in parallel. We used three aphid genes (mitochondrial COI, cytochrome oxidase subunit I and Cytb, cytochrome b; nuclear EF1a, translation elongation factor 1 alpha) and two Buchnera genes (16S rDNA; gnd, gluconate-6-phosphate dehydrogenase) to reconstruct phylogenies. The congruence between the phylogenetic trees of aphids and Buchnera was then measured. The results present phylogenetic evidence for the parallel evolution of Mollitrichosiphum and Buchnera at the intraspecific as well as the interspecific levels. Our results support the possibility of using endosymbiont genes to study host evolutionary history and biogeographical patterns. We also investigated the usability of the Buchnera gnd gene as a barcoding marker for aphid identification.	2013	10.1111/j.1365-3113.2012.00647.x
Perrigo, AL; Baldauf, SL; Romeralo, M	Diversity of dictyostelid social amoebae in high latitude habitats of Northern Sweden	FUNGAL DIVERSITY	The dictyostelid social amoebae (Dictyostelia) occur in terrestrial habitats worldwide. It has been observed previously that their diversity decreases with increasing latitude and altitude. Here we look at dictyostelid diversity in the high latitude habitats of Northern Sweden. Dictyostelids were recovered from soil samples using traditional plating methods and then identified using morphological characters and molecular sequence (small subunit ribosomal RNA) data. In total, nine species were recovered, including two new species, described herein as Dictyostelium barbibulus and Polysphondylium fuscans. The species diversity found here is discussed in relation to previous findings in the area as well as other high-latitude studies, and biogeographical patterns are examined. The total number of species found in Northern Sweden is lower than the numbers recorded for regions further south in Europe, a finding consistent with a latitudinal gradient of species diversity. Our findings highlight the benefit of using molecular data for accurate species identification in Dictyostelia and the need for a continued sampling effort to better understand their diversity and distribution, especially in high latitude habitats.	2013	10.1007/s13225-012-0208-3
de Rezende, JR; Kjeldsen, KU; Hubert, CRJ; Finster, K; Loy, A; Jorgensen, BB	Dispersal of thermophilic Desulfotomaculum endospores into Baltic Sea sediments over thousands of years	ISME JOURNAL	Patterns of microbial biogeography result from a combination of dispersal, speciation and extinction, yet individual contributions exerted by each of these mechanisms are difficult to isolate and distinguish. The influx of endospores of thermophilic microorganisms to cold marine sediments offers a natural model for investigating passive dispersal in the ocean. We investigated the activity, diversity and abundance of thermophilic endospore-forming sulfate-reducing bacteria (SRB) in Aarhus Bay by incubating pasteurized sediment between 28 and 85 degrees C, and by subsequent molecular diversity analyses of 16S rRNA and of the dissimilatory (bi)sulfite reductase (dsrAB) genes within the endospore-forming SRB genus Desulfotomaculum. The thermophilic Desulfotomaculum community in Aarhus Bay sediments consisted of at least 23 species-level 16S rRNA sequence phylotypes. In two cases, pairs of identical 16S rRNA and dsrAB sequences in Arctic surface sediment 3000 km away showed that the same phylotypes are present in both locations. Radiotracer-enhanced most probable number analysis revealed that the abundance of endospores of thermophilic SRB in Aarhus Bay sediment was ca. 10(4) per cm(3) at the surface and decreased exponentially to 10(0) per cm(3) at 6.5m depth, corresponding to 4500 years of sediment age. Thus, a half-life of ca. 300 years was estimated for the thermophilic SRB endospores deposited in Aarhus Bay sediments. These endospores were similarly detected in the overlying water column, indicative of passive dispersal in water masses preceding sedimentation. The sources of these thermophiles remain enigmatic, but at least one source may be common to both Aarhus Bay and Arctic sediments. The ISME Journal (2013) 7, 72-84; doi:10.1038/ismej.2012.83; published online 26 July 2012	2013	10.1038/ismej.2012.83
Malmstrom, RR; Rodrigue, S; Huang, KH; Kelly, L; Kern, SE; Thompson, A; Roggensack, S; Berube, PM; Henn, MR; Chisholm, SW	Ecology of uncultured Prochlorococcus clades revealed through single-cell genomics and biogeographic analysis	ISME JOURNAL	Prochlorococcus is the numerically dominant photosynthetic organism throughout much of the worlds oceans, yet little is known about the ecology and genetic diversity of populations inhabiting tropical waters. To help close this gap, we examined natural Prochlorococcus communities in the tropical Pacific Ocean using a single-cell whole-genome amplification and sequencing. Analysis of the gene content of just 10 single cells from these waters added 394 new genes to the Prochlorococcus pan-genome-that is, genes never before seen in a Prochlorococcus cell. Analysis of marker genes, including the ribosomal internal transcribed sequence, from dozens of individual cells revealed several representatives from two uncultivated clades of Prochlorococcus previously identified as HNLC1 and HNLC2. While the HNLC clades can dominate Prochlorococcus communities under certain conditions, their overall geographic distribution was highly restricted compared with other clades of Prochlorococcus. In the Atlantic and Pacific oceans, these clades were only found in warm waters with low Fe and high inorganic P levels. Genomic analysis suggests that at least one of these clades thrives in low Fe environments by scavenging organic-bound Fe, a process previously unknown in Prochlorococcus. Furthermore, the capacity to utilize organic-bound Fe appears to have been acquired horizontally and may be exchanged among other clades of Prochlorococcus. Finally, one of the single Prochlorococcus cells sequenced contained a partial genome of what appears to be a prophage integrated into the genome. The ISME Journal (2013) 7, 184-198; doi:10.1038/ismej.2012.89; published online 16 August 2012	2013	10.1038/ismej.2012.89
Engelhardt, T; Sahlberg, M; Cypionka, H; Engelen, B	Biogeography of Rhizobium radiobacter and distribution of associated temperate phages in deep subseafloor sediments	ISME JOURNAL	Bacteriophages might be the main predators in the marine deep subsurface and probably have a major impact on indigenous microbial communities. To identify their function within this habitat, we have determined their abundance and distribution along the sediment columns of two continental margin and two open ocean sites that were recovered during Leg 201 of the Ocean Drilling Program. For all investigated sites, viral abundance followed the total cell numbers with a virus-to-cell ratio between 1 and 10 in the upper 100 mbsf (meters below seafloor). An increasing ratio of about 20 in deeper layers indicated an ongoing viral production in up to 11 Ma old sediments. We have used Rhizobium radiobacter as the most frequently isolated organism from the deep subsurface with a high in situ abundance to identify the frequency of associated rhizobiophages. In this study, 16S rRNA gene copies of R. radiobacter accounted for up to 5.6% of total bacterial 16S rRNA genes (average: 0.75%) as detected by quantitative PCR. A distinctive distribution was identified for R. radiobacter as indicated by a site-specific arrangement of genetically similar populations. Whole genome information of rhizobiophage RR1-A was used to generate a primer system for quantitative PCR specifically targeting the prophage antirepressor gene, indicative for temperate phages. The quantification of this gene within various sediment horizons showed a contribution of temperate phages of up to 14.3% to the total viral abundance. Thus, the high amount of temperate phages within the sediments and among all investigated isolates indicates that lysogeny is the main viral proliferation mode in deep subsurface populations. The ISME Journal (2013) 7, 199-209; doi: 10.1038/ismej.2012.92; published online 2 August 2012	2013	10.1038/ismej.2012.92
Zhang, T; Xu, JH; Zeng, J; Lou, K	Diversity of prokaryotes associated with soils around coal-fire gas vents in MaNasi county of Xinjiang, China	ANTONIE VAN LEEUWENHOEK INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF GENERAL AND MOLECULAR MICROBIOLOGY	Bacterial and archaeal diversity in surface soils of three coal-fire vents was investigated by T-RFLP analysis and clone libraries of 16S rRNA genes. Soil analysis showed that underground coal fires significantly influenced soil pH, moisture and NO3 (-) content but had little effect on other elements, organic matter and available nutrients. Hierarchical cluster analysis showed that bacterial community patterns in the soils were very similar, but abundance varied with geographic distance. A clone library from one soil showed that the bacterial community was mainly composed of Firmicutes, Proteobacteria, Acidobacteria, Bacteroidetes, Planctomycetes, Actinobacteria, and unidentified groups. Of these, Firmicutes was the most abundant, accounting for 71.4 % of the clones, and was mainly represented by the genera Bacillus and Paenibacillus. Archaeal phylotypes were closely related to uncultivated species of the phyla Crenarchaeota (97.9 % of clones) and Thaumarchaeota (2.1 %). About 28 % of archaeal phylotypes were associated with ammonia oxidization, especially phylotypes that were highly related to a novel, ammonia-oxidizing isolate from the phylum Thaumarchaeota. These results suggested that microbial communities in the soils were diverse and might contain a large number of novel cultivable species with the potential to assimilate materials by heterotrophic metabolism at high temperature.	2013	10.1007/s10482-012-9782-3
Youngblut, ND; Shade, A; Read, JS; McMahon, KD; Whitaker, RJ	Lineage-Specific Responses of Microbial Communities to Environmental Change	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	A great challenge facing microbial ecology is how to define ecologically relevant taxonomic units. To address this challenge, we investigated how changing the definition of operational taxonomic units (OTUs) influences the perception of ecological patterns in microbial communities as they respond to a dramatic environmental change. We used pyrosequenced tags of the bacterial V2 16S rRNA region, as well as clone libraries constructed from the cytochrome oxidase C gene ccoN, to provide additional taxonomic resolution for the common freshwater genus Polynucleobacter. At the most highly resolved taxonomic scale, we show that distinct genotypes associated with the abundant Polynucleobacter lineages exhibit divergent spatial patterns and dramatic changes over time, while the also abundant Actinobacteria OTUs are highly coherent. This clearly demonstrates that different bacterial lineages demand different taxonomic definitions to capture ecological patterns. Based on the temporal distribution of highly resolved taxa in the hypolimnion, we demonstrate that change in the population structure of a single genotype can provide additional insight into the mechanisms of community-level responses. These results highlight the importance and feasibility of examining ecological change in microbial communities across taxonomic scales while also providing valuable insight into the ecological characteristics of ecologically coherent groups in this system.	2013	10.1128/AEM.02226-12
Dang, HY; Yang, JY; Li, J; Luan, XW; Zhang, YB; Gu, GZ; Xue, RR; Zong, MY; Klotz, MG	Environment-Dependent Distribution of the Sediment nifH-Harboring Microbiota in the Northern South China Sea	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	The South China Sea (SCS), the largest marginal sea in the Western Pacific Ocean, is a huge oligotrophic water body with very limited influx of nitrogenous nutrients. This suggests that sediment microbial N-2 fixation plays an important role in the production of bioavailable nitrogen. To test the molecular underpinning of this hypothesis, the diversity, abundance, biogeographical distribution, and community structure of the sediment diazotrophic microbiota were investigated at 12 sampling sites, including estuarine, coastal, offshore, deep-sea, and methane hydrate reservoirs or their prospective areas by targeting nifH and some other functional biomarker genes. Diverse and novel nifH sequences were obtained, significantly extending the evolutionary complexity of extant nifH genes. Statistical analyses indicate that sediment in situ temperature is the most significant environmental factor influencing the abundance, community structure, and spatial distribution of the sediment nifH-harboring microbial assemblages in the northern SCS (nSCS). The significantly positive correlation of the sediment pore water NH4+ concentration with the nifH gene abundance suggests that the nSCS sediment nifH-harboring microbiota is active in N-2 fixation and NH4+ production. Several other environmental factors, including sediment pore water PO43- concentration, sediment organic carbon, nitrogen and phosphorus levels, etc., are also important in influencing the community structure, spatial distribution, or abundance of the nifH-harboring microbial assemblages. We also confirmed that the nifH genes encoded by archaeal diazotrophs in the ANME-2c subgroup occur exclusively in the deep-sea methane seep areas, providing for the possibility to develop ANME-2c nifH genes as a diagnostic tool for deep-sea methane hydrate reservoir discovery.	2013	10.1128/AEM.01889-12
Said, I; Somerville, ID; Rodriguez, S; Cozar, P	Mississippian coral assemblages from the Khenifra area, Central Morocco: Biostratigraphy, biofacies, palaeoecology and palaeobiogeography	GONDWANA RESEARCH	Analysis of Mississippian coral assemblages from the Khenifra region of Central Morocco together with data from foraminiferal/algal microfossils has established new age dating of 5 localities within the Azrou-Khenifra Basin: Souk El Had and Sidi Lamine, where corals occur mainly in biostromes protected by oolitic shoals. Tabainout, where corals have been recorded in different environments related to microbial mounds, Alhajra Almatkouba, where corals occur in biostromal reworked beds and Tiouinine, where corals occur in a well structured, fringing reef. This study demonstrates the presence of richer more diverse coral assemblages than previously recorded, in a variety of environmental settings. These coral assemblages strengthen correlations with the Adarouch area in the NE part of the Azrou-Khenifra Basin. It is emphasised that in the upper Visean there are close similarities with rugose coral assemblages in other parts of the Western Palaeotethys including North Africa, SW Spain and NW Europe, and that all belong to the same biogeographic province. (c) 2012 International Association for Gondwana Research. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2013	10.1016/j.gr.2012.04.008
Grim, JN; Clements, KD	New Observations on the Ciliate Genus Vestibulongum (Pycnotrichidae): Vestibular Ultrastructure, Macronuclear Endosymbiotic Bacteria, Biogeography, and Evidence for Host Specificity	JOURNAL OF EUKARYOTIC MICROBIOLOGY	Two isolates of the pycnotrichid ciliate genus, Vestibulongum, were collected from the host fish, Acanthurus xanthopterus, from two locations in the Southern Pacific Ocean. One was from the Great Barrier Reef (GBR), and a second from Papua New Guinea. These sites are thousands of km from the type locality, off the coast of South Africa. New data were collected from protargol-stained samples to more fully characterize the general form and light microscopic structures of the ciliate. Specimens from all three sites had a long vestibule, characteristic of most members of the family. Data suggest that specimens from each site are the same genus. The kinetids of the Vestibulongum isolated from the GBR contained the typical components of postciliary, transverse, and nemodesmatal microtubules, and Kd fibrils. Also, two quite different forms of endomacronuclear bacteria were observed and are described. One of those has distinct endospores, which are similar to endospores in nuclear endosymbiotic bacteria in a species of Balantidium from the gut of another species of surgeonfish.	2013	10.1111/jeu.12004
Cermeno, P; Maranon, E; Romero, OE	Response of marine diatom communities to Late Quaternary abrupt climate changes	JOURNAL OF PLANKTON RESEARCH	The high temporal resolution of the marine microfossil record makes it possible to explore how microbial communities responded to abrupt climate changes in the past. We analysed changes in species richness and total abundance of marine diatoms in sedimentary records from the Mauritanian upwelling system and the Panama Basin spanning the last 100 000 years. The analysis shows instances of community change and recovery linked to episodes of rapid, sub-millennial scale climate change (e.g. Heinrich events). The probability of sampling a given species during the perturbation increased with the mean abundance of the species in the database, indicating that (i) dominant species were persistent through long periods of time and (ii) rare species, with low population densities, accounted for much of the variability in species richness. To the extent that contemporaneous climate change falls within the range of climate variability analysed here, our results point to important changes in the structure of marine diatom communities, yet these changes will be reversible. These results highlight the importance of integrating fossil data and ecological theories to understand the effect of climate change on the ecological and biogeochemical functioning of marine ecosystems.	2013	10.1093/plankt/fbs073
Bahram, M; Koljalg, U; Kohout, P; Mirshahvaladi, S; Tedersoo, L	Ectomycorrhizal fungi of exotic pine plantations in relation to native host trees in Iran: evidence of host range expansion by local symbionts to distantly related host taxa	MYCORRHIZA	Introduction of exotic plants change soil microbial communities which may have detrimental ecological consequences for ecosystems. In this study, we examined the community structure and species richness of ectomycorrhizal (EcM) fungi associated with exotic pine plantations in relation to adjacent native ectomycorrhizal trees in Iran to elucidate the symbiont exchange between distantly related hosts, i.e. Fagales (Fagaceae and Betulaceae) and Pinaceae. The combination of morphological and molecular identification approaches revealed that 84.6 % of species with more than one occurrence (at least once on pines) were shared with native trees and only 5.9 % were found exclusively on pine root tips. The community diversity of ectomycorrhizal fungi in the pine plantations adjacent to native EcM trees was comparable to their adjacent native trees, but the isolated plantations hosted relatively a species-poor community. Specific mycobionts of conifers were dominant in the isolated plantation while rarely found in the plantations adjacent to native EcM trees. These data demonstrate the importance of habitat isolation and dispersal limitation of EcM fungi in their potential of host range expansion. The great number of shared and possibly compatible symbiotic species between exotic Pinaceae and local Fagales (Fagaceae and Betulaceae) may reflect their evolutionary adaptations and/or ancestral compatibility with one another.	2013	10.1007/s00572-012-0445-z
Giles, EC; Kamke, J; Moitinho-Silva, L; Taylor, MW; Hentschel, U; Ravasi, T; Schmitt, S	Bacterial community profiles in low microbial abundance sponges	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	It has long been recognized that sponges differ in the abundance of associated microorganisms, and they are therefore termed either low microbial abundance (LMA) or high microbial abundance (HMA) sponges. Many previous studies concentrated on the dense microbial communities in HMA sponges, whereas little is known about microorganisms in LMA sponges. Here, two LMA sponges from the Red Sea, two from the Caribbean and one from the South Pacific were investigated. With up to only five bacterial phyla per sponge, all LMA sponges showed lower phylum-level diversity than typical HMA sponges. Interestingly, each LMA sponge was dominated by a large clade within either Cyanobacteria or different classes of Proteobacteria. The overall similarity of bacterial communities among LMA sponges determined by operational taxonomic unit and UniFrac analysis was low. Also the number of sponge-specific clusters, which indicate bacteria specifically associated with sponges and which are numerous in HMA sponges, was low. A biogeographical or host-dependent distribution pattern was not observed. In conclusion, bacterial community profiles of LMA sponges are clearly different from profiles of HMA sponges and, remarkably, each LMA sponge seems to harbour its own unique bacterial community.	2013	10.1111/j.1574-6941.2012.01467.x
Rojas, C; Morales, RE; Calderon, I; Clerc, P	First records of myxomycetes from El Salvador	MYCOSPHERE	Myxomycetes have been studied formally in most of Central America except for El Salvador. Even though this country is the last in the region to begin an official inventory for this group of organisms, the 37 new records reported herein suggest that the myxobiota of El Salvador can be valuable for biogeographical analyses. As an example, this study reports Perichaena tessellata for the first time in the Neotropical region. Such an observation along with studies conducted in previous years in Central America show that the Mesoamerican biodiversity hotspot can provide important information to understand myxomycete dynamics in tropical areas. Additionally to the latter, during the present study a first characterization of the species of myxomycetes present in Montecristo National Park was also carried out. This is an important contribution to the biological knowledge of critical conservation areas in Central America since such park is one of the few remnants of cloud forest in El Salvador. For microbial conservation purposes, these types of rapid biodiversity assessments are imperative in understudied areas of the world such as El Salvador and necessary in forest types such as Montecristo that are threatened by climate and land use change.	2013	10.5943/mycosphere/4/6/2
Pattnaik, SS; Bakwad, KM; Sohi, BS; Ratho, RK; Devi, S	Swine Influenza Models Based Optimization (SIMBO)	APPLIED SOFT COMPUTING	This paper introduces a new optimization technique known as Swine Influenza Model based Optimization (SIMBO). It is mimicked from Susceptible-Infectious-Recovered (SIR) models of swine flu. The development of SIMBO follows through treatment (SIMBO-T), vaccination (SIMBO-V) and quarantine (SIMBO-Q) based on probability. The SIMBO variants can be used to optimize complex multimodal functions with improved convergence and accuracy. Firstly, swine flue test based on the dynamic threshold identifies a confirmed case of swine flue. After a confirmed case of swine flue in the community, the susceptible are advised to go for the swine flue vaccination to acquire immunity. The confirmed case of swine flue is quarantined from the population. The suspected cases are treated with antiviral. The amount of antiviral drugs given to individual is dependent on patients with or without complications as well as current health of individual. In SIMBO-V and SIMBO-Q, state of the individual is updated directly through vaccination/quarantine and indirectly through treatment. The nonlinear momentum factors restrict the individuals treatment and state inside the defined limits without checking the health every day. SIMBO variants can easily be implemented on parallel computer architecture without having over burden or modifications. The SIMBO-T, SIMBO-V and SIMBO-Q are tested with thirteen standard benchmark functions and results are compared with other optimization techniques. The results validate that, the SIMBO variants perform comparably better. The performance of SIMBO variants are evaluated in terms of quality of optima, number of times heating stopping criteria, convergence, Fitness Evaluations (FEs), t-test, statistical parameters and analysis of variance test (ANOVA). A real time application in video motion estimation is also considered by authors to test the efficiency of the SIMBO variants. The results of motion estimation using proposed variants seems to be faster than the published methods by maintaining similar peak signal to noise ratio. (C) 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2013	10.1016/j.asoc.2012.07.010
Fierer, N; Leff, JW; Adams, BJ; Nielsen, UN; Bates, ST; Lauber, CL; Owens, S; Gilbert, JA; Wall, DH; Caporaso, JG	Cross-biome metagenomic analyses of soil microbial communities and their functional attributes	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	For centuries ecologists have studied how the diversity and functional traits of plant and animal communities vary across biomes. In contrast, we have only just begun exploring similar questions for soil microbial communities despite soil microbes being the dominant engines of biogeochemical cycles and a major pool of living biomass in terrestrial ecosystems. We used metagenomic sequencing to compare the composition and functional attributes of 16 soil microbial communities collected from cold deserts, hot deserts, forests, grasslands, and tundra. Those communities found in plant-free cold desert soils typically had the lowest levels of functional diversity (diversity of protein-coding gene categories) and the lowest levels of phylogenetic and taxonomic diversity. Across all soils, functional beta diversity was strongly correlated with taxonomic and phylogenetic beta diversity; the desert microbial communities were clearly distinct from the nondesert communities regardless of the metric used. The desert communities had higher relative abundances of genes associated with osmoregulation and dormancy, but lower relative abundances of genes associated with nutrient cycling and the catabolism of plant-derived organic compounds. Antibiotic resistance genes were consistently threefold less abundant in the desert soils than in the nondesert soils, suggesting that abiotic conditions, not competitive interactions, are more important in shaping the desert microbial communities. As the most comprehensive survey of soil taxonomic, phylogenetic, and functional diversity to date, this study demonstrates that metagenomic approaches can be used to build a predictive understanding of how microbial diversity and function vary across terrestrial biomes.	2012	10.1073/pnas.1215210110
Everroad, RC; Otaki, H; Matsuura, K; Haruta, S	Diversification of Bacterial Community Composition along a Temperature Gradient at a Thermal Spring	MICROBES AND ENVIRONMENTS	To better understand the biogeography and relationship between temperature and community structure within microbial mats, the bacterial diversity of mats at a slightly alkaline, sulfide-containing hot spring was explored. Microbial mats that developed at temperatures between 75-52 degrees C were collected from an area of approximately 1 m(2) in Nakabusa, Nagano, Japan. Bacterial 16S rRNA genes from these samples were examined by terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) and clone library analysis. T-RFLP profiles revealed 66 unique fragments (T-RFs). Based on total T-RFs observed in environmental profiles and clone libraries, a temperature effect on diversity was determined, with complexity in the community increasing as temperature decreased. The T-RF pattern indicated four distinct community assemblages related to temperature. Members of the Aquificales and particularly the sulfur-oxidizing bacterium Sulfurihydrogenibium were present at all temperatures and were the dominant component of mats taken at 75-67 degrees C. Sulfide oxidation, which persisted throughout the temperature gradient, was the presumed dominant pathway of primary production above 67 degrees C. As temperature decreased, successive additions of anoxygenic and oxygenic phototrophs increased primary productivity, allowing for diversification of the community.	2012	
Martin-Garin, B; Lathuiliere, B; Geister, J	The shifting biogeography of reef corals during the Oxfordian (Late Jurassic). A climatic control?	PALAEOGEOGRAPHY PALAEOCLIMATOLOGY PALAEOECOLOGY	Until recently, the Jurassic was thought to have been a period characterised by a predominantly warm and equable climate. During the Oxfordian (a time span of six million years in the Late Jurassic) the distribution of tropical coral reefs was limited to about 35 degrees N and near to 25 degrees S. However, in Middle Oxfordian time, coral reefs were abundant only at higher latitudes and almost entirely missing near the equator. During that time the area of maximum reef development had shifted poleward to a belt lying between 20 degrees N and 35 degrees N, leaving hardly any coral formations at the lower inner-tropical latitudes. After demise towards the end of Middle Oxfordian time, the low-latitude reefs recovered during the Late Oxfordian, accompanied by a southward migration of reef corals in the northern hemisphere. As suggested by stable isotope and palynological data, the faunal migration can be correlated with a significant rise in seawater temperature during the Middle Oxfordian. (C) 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2012	10.1016/j.palaeo.2012.09.022
Torres-Beltran, M; Cardoso-Martinez, F; Millan-Aguinaga, N; Becerril-Espinosa, A; Soria-Mercado, IE	Evaluation of the Gulf of California as a potential source of bioactive marine actinobacteria	CIENCIAS MARINAS	Actinobacteria produce many bioactive compounds currently used as antibiotics and anticancer drugs. The objective of this project was to evaluate the Gulf of California as a novel source, of bioactive actinobacterial strains. A total of 235 actinobacterial strains were isolated from marine sediment collected in Concepcion and los Angeles bays (Mexico). Based on their morphology, seawater requirements, and 16S rRNA sequencing, actinobacterial strains were classified as Streptomyces, Micromonospora, and Salinispora. Sixty-nine organic and aqueous extracts were obtained using liquid-liquid extraction with ethyl acetate; 17 showed cytotoxic activity against breast cancer cells (MCF7) and cervical cancer cells (HeLa). The highest activity values observed, expressed as survival percentage, were 20-25% against MCF7 cells (strains S-365, S-355, and S-361) and 24-25% against HeLa cells (strains S-165, S-361, and S-353). Only three aqueous extracts showed antibiotic activity towards methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus, with activity values of 3% and 6% for strains S-370 and S-369, respectively. Molecular weights found by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry analysis are reported for Micromonospora species isolated from soil, but no species-specific secondary metabolite evidence was observed for Salinispora isolates. The biological activity observed in this work offers opportunities for further chemical studies to define the compounds responsible for this activity in order to contribute to the discovery of new drugs and to acknowledge the Gulf of California as a reservoir of marine bioactive actinobacteria strains that are important for human health.	2012	10.7773/cm.v38i4.2131
Steven, B; McCann, S; Ward, NL	Pyrosequencing of plastid 23S rRNA genes reveals diverse and dynamic cyanobacterial and algal populations in two eutrophic lakes	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Pyrosequencing of plastid 23S rRNA genes was performed to determine the usefulness of this methodology for describing spatial and temporal patterns of algal diversity in two eutrophic lakes. The majority of the sequences were identified as known cyanobacteria or eukaryotic algae (> 70% of sequence reads), indicating this approach can specifically recover algal sequences from complex communities. Furthermore, estimated coverage of the data sets indicated that the majority of the 23S rRNA genetic diversity was recovered in these surveys. Communities from algal mats could be clearly distinguished from algae in the water column, and the communities could be readily differentiated between the two lakes, suggesting that the plastid 23S rRNA sequencing was able to distinguish niche and biogeographic partitioning of algal communities. Within the sequence data sets, the ratio of cyanobacteria to eukaryotic algae fluctuated over the course of sampling, with cyanobacteria 23S rRNA sequences being more abundant in later samples. In addition, the eukaryotic algae communities showed large shifts in composition over the course of sampling. Taken together, these data demonstrate the usefulness of targeted plastid 23S rRNA sequencing for describing the structure and dynamics of complex algal communities.	2012	10.1111/j.1574-6941.2012.01429.x
de Figueiredo, DR; Castro, BB; Pereira, MJ; Correia, A	Bacterioplankton community composition in Portuguese water bodies under a severe summer drought	COMMUNITY ECOLOGY	In 2005, a severe drought occurred in Portugal, with several reservoirs becoming dry in the southern region. A set of 20 Portuguese water bodies were analysed through denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (16SrDNA-DGGE) and DNA sequencing to assess its bacterioplankton diversity under these particular conditions. Environmental parameters were determined to assess the trophic conditions of each water body. Most water bodies fell into the meso-to eutrophic and hypereutrophic state. In general, the levels for conductivity, pH and total suspended solids were higher than the average data from previous years. Dominant phylotypes belonged to Cyanobacteria, Actinobacteria Alphaproteobacteria, Betaproteobacteria and Bacteroidetes groups. Despite the geographic distance, common phylotypes could be recorded among water bodies. Bacteroidetes dominated at Sousa River and were related to high nutrient levels. Cyanobacteria dominated at Alentejo reservoirs and correlated with higher conductivity values. However, Actinobacteria showed ubiquitous phylotypes throughout several samples, suggesting its persistence over geographically distant water bodies. This study showed a clear deterioration of water quality, from a physico-chemical point of view; furthermore, dominance of Cyanobacteria and Actinobacteria in reservoirs used for drinking water supply were also detected, which may become a concerning issue. However, the most severe bacterial community composition variations between summer 2005 and others were mainly related to higher water residence times. Thus, along with the expected intensification of drought episodes, with severe effects particularly in Southern Europe, it is clearly predictable an intensification in risks for water quality maintenance and even Public Health.	2012	10.1556/ComEc.13.2012.2.8
Soininen, J; Kongas, P	Analysis of nestedness in freshwater assemblages-patterns across species and trophic levels	FRESHWATER SCIENCE	Nestedness measures the degree to which species assemblages are proper subsets of larger assemblages within a metacommunity. We analyzed nestedness in 20 freshwater data sets, each for a single metacommunity within a drainage basin. First, we examined the degree of nestedness across local assemblages and identified major environmental correlates of nestedness at sites. Second, we examined whether nestedness showed concordance among trophic levels. Third, we examined whether nested and idiosyncratic species (i.e., species that have unpredictable gaps in their distribution) differed ecologically and showed dissimilar distribution patterns along geographical and environmental gradients. Degrees of nestedness, obtained using a metric by Almeida-Neto et al. (2008), ranged from 22.9 to 57.0, with 11 matrices showing significant nestedness. Lake bacteria had a higher degree of nestedness than did phytoor zooplankton. The degree of nestedness was related mainly to water temperature, conductivity, and trophic status of the water, results suggesting that habitat quality may be an important predictor of nestedness, but was only weakly concordant among trophic levels within metacommunities. However, averaged across all metacommunities, nestedness values between phytoplankton and zooplankton and between phytoplankton and bacteria were positively correlated. Nested and idiosyncratic species did not differ in their spatial and environmental distribution patterns. Freshwater planktonic assemblages were characterized by a relatively low degree of nestedness. The low congruence in nestedness among trophic levels suggests that assemblages typically show independent gradients of nestedness. This result indicates that assemblages respond dissimilarly to driving forces, such as habitat quality, or that nestedness in freshwaters might be related to stochastic colonization. Conserving only the most diverse sites may not protect rare species because of the relatively low degree of nestedness in fresh waters.	2012	10.1899/12-043.1
Shade, A; Read, JS; Youngblut, ND; Fierer, N; Knight, R; Kratz, TK; Lottig, NR; Roden, EE; Stanley, EH; Stombaugh, J; Whitaker, RJ; Wu, CH; McMahon, KD	Lake microbial communities are resilient after a whole-ecosystem disturbance	ISME JOURNAL	Disturbances act as powerful structuring forces on ecosystems. To ask whether environmental microbial communities have capacity to recover after a large disturbance event, we conducted a whole-ecosystem manipulation, during which we imposed an intense disturbance on freshwater microbial communities by artificially mixing a temperate lake during peak summer thermal stratification. We employed environmental sensors and water chemistry analyses to evaluate the physical and chemical responses of the lake, and bar-coded 16S ribosomal RNA gene pyrosequencing and automated ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis (ARISA) to assess the bacterial community responses. The artificial mixing increased mean lake temperature from 14 to 20 degrees C for seven weeks after mixing ended, and exposed the microorganisms to very different environmental conditions, including increased hypolimnion oxygen and increased epilimnion carbon dioxide concentrations. Though overall ecosystem conditions remained altered (with hypolimnion temperatures elevated from 6 to 20 degrees C), bacterial communities returned to their pre-manipulation state as some environmental conditions, such as oxygen concentration, recovered. Recovery to pre-disturbance community composition and diversity was observed within 7 (epilimnion) and 11 (hypolimnion) days after mixing. Our results suggest that some microbial communities have capacity to recover after a major disturbance. The ISME Journal (2012) 6, 2153-2167; doi:10.1038/ismej.2012.56; published online 28 June 2012	2012	10.1038/ismej.2012.56
Peralta, AL; Matthews, JW; Flanagan, DN; Kent, AD	Environmental Factors at Dissimilar Spatial Scales Influence Plant and Microbial Communities in Restored Wetlands	WETLANDS	Identifying environmental factors that contribute to plant and microbial community variation at different spatial scales can provide critical information for restoration of these communities and the ecosystem services they provide. The objectives of this study were to (i) quantify the relationships among landscape/local environmental factors and plant, bacterial and denitrifier communities, and (ii) assess the spatial relationships between environmental and biological community matrices in 27 restored Illinois wetlands. We hypothesized that plant and microbial community composition are sensitive to different environmental factors operating at local compared to landscape scales. We surveyed plant assemblages, overall bacterial communities, and denitrifying bacteria. Landscape (surrounding land cover, regional climate variables) and local soil factors (soil organic matter, moisture, inorganic nitrogen, pH, redox status) were also assessed. Land use, temperature, and nitrogen availability influenced plant community composition. In contrast, microbial community composition was correlated with local soil factors, especially pH. Our results demonstrated that plant communities in restored wetlands are influenced by both landscape and local factors, whereas microbial communities are more strongly influenced by local soil factors. Choosing restoration sites based on environmental conditions known to support particular plant or microbial communities may enhance recovery of ecosystem services mediated by plants and soil microorganisms.	2012	10.1007/s13157-012-0343-3
Rojas, C; Stephenson, SL	Rapid assessment of the distribution of myxomycetes in a southwestern Amazon forest	FUNGAL ECOLOGY	The distribution of fruit bodies of myxomycetes under different ecological conditions at the Los Amigos Biological Station in southeastern Peru was studied. Six study areas were surveyed using a combined field-laboratory methodology under different climatic conditions. Sixty species were recorded and differences in fruit body abundance and structure of the assemblages were found among collecting periods. A diversity analysis based on fruit bodies showed that values were predominantly higher during the dry period. An analysis of microenvironmental conditions applied to a subset of data collected in the field showed that pH and substratum diameter accounted for most of the variation. In addition, the most abundant myxomycetes based on fruit body occurrence showed a multivariate arrangement that suggests the existence of functional groups. (c) 2012 Elsevier Ltd and The British Mycological Society. All rights reserved.	2012	10.1016/j.funeco.2012.05.008
Duperron, S; Rodrigues, CF; Leger, N; Szafranski, K; Decker, C; Olu, K; Gaudron, SM	Diversity of symbioses between chemosynthetic bacteria and metazoans at the Guiness cold seep site (Gulf of Guinea, West Africa)	MICROBIOLOGYOPEN	Fauna from deep-sea cold seeps worldwide is dominated by chemosymbiotic metazoans. Recently, investigation of new sites in the Gulf of Guinea yielded numerous new species for which symbiosis was strongly suspected. In this study, symbioses are characterized in five seep-specialist metazoans recently collected from the Guiness site located at similar to 600 m depth. Four bivalve and one annelid species belonging to families previously documented to harbor chemosynthetic bacteria were investigated using bacterial marker gene sequencing, fluorescence in situ hybridization, and stable isotope analyses. Results support that all five species display chemosynthetic, sulfur-oxidizing gamma-proteobacteria. Bacteria are abundant in the gills of bivalves, and in the trophosome of the siboglinid annelid. As observed for their relatives occurring at deeper sites, chemoautotrophy is a major source of carbon for animal nutrition. Although symbionts found in each host species are related to symbionts found in other metazoans from the same families, several incongruencies are observed among phylogenetic trees obtained from the different bacterial genes, suggesting a certain level of heterogeneity in symbiont strains present. Results provide new insights into the diversity, biogeography, and role of symbiotic bacteria in metazoans from the Gulf of Guinea, at a site located at an intermediate depth between the continental shelf and the deep sea.	2012	10.1002/mbo3.47
Figuerola, ELM; Guerrero, LD; Rosa, SM; Simonetti, L; Duval, ME; Galantini, JA; Bedano, JC; Wall, LG; Erijman, L	Bacterial Indicator of Agricultural Management for Soil under No-Till Crop Production	PLOS ONE	The rise in the world demand for food poses a challenge to our ability to sustain soil fertility and sustainability. The increasing use of no-till agriculture, adopted in many areas of the world as an alternative to conventional farming, may contribute to reduce the erosion of soils and the increase in the soil carbon pool. However, the advantages of no-till agriculture are jeopardized when its use is linked to the expansion of crop monoculture. The aim of this study was to survey bacterial communities to find indicators of soil quality related to contrasting agriculture management in soils under no-till farming. Four sites in production agriculture, with different soil properties, situated across a west-east transect in the most productive region in the Argentinean pampas, were taken as the basis for replication. Working definitions of Good no-till Agricultural Practices (GAP) and Poor no-till Agricultural Practices (PAP) were adopted for two distinct scenarios in terms of crop rotation, fertilization, agrochemicals use and pest control. Non-cultivated soils nearby the agricultural sites were taken as additional control treatments. Tag-encoded pyrosequencing was used to deeply sample the 16S rRNA gene from bacteria residing in soils corresponding to the three treatments at the four locations. Although bacterial communities as a whole appeared to be structured chiefly by a marked biogeographic provincialism, the distribution of a few taxa was shaped as well by environmental conditions related to agricultural management practices. A statistically supported approach was used to define candidates for management-indicator organisms, subsequently validated using quantitative PCR. We suggest that the ratio between the normalized abundance of a selected group of bacteria within the GP1 group of the phylum Acidobacteria and the genus Rubellimicrobium of the Alphaproteobacteria may serve as a potential management-indicator to discriminate between sustainable vs. non-sustainable agricultural practices in the Pampa region.	2012	10.1371/journal.pone.0051075
Hulcr, J; Latimer, AM; Henley, JB; Rountree, NR; Fierer, N; Lucky, A; Lowman, MD; Dunn, RR	A Jungle in There: Bacteria in Belly Buttons are Highly Diverse, but Predictable	PLOS ONE	The belly button is one of the habitats closest to us, and yet it remains relatively unexplored. We analyzed bacteria and arachaea from the belly buttons of humans from two different populations sampled within a nation-wide citizen science project. We examined bacterial and archaeal phylotypes present and their diversity using multiplex pyrosequencing of 16S rDNA libraries. We then tested the oligarchy hypothesis borrowed from tropical macroecology, namely that the frequency of phylotypes in one sample of humans predicts its frequency in another independent sample. We also tested the predictions that frequent phylotypes (the oligarchs) tend to be common when present, and tend to be more phylogenetically clustered than rare phylotypes. Once rarefied to four hundred reads per sample, bacterial communities from belly buttons proved to be at least as diverse as communities known from other skin studies (on average 67 bacterial phylotypes per belly button). However, the belly button communities were strongly dominated by a few taxa: only 6 phylotypes occurred on >80% humans. While these frequent bacterial phylotypes (the archaea were all rare) are a tiny part of the total diversity of bacteria human navels (<0.3% of phylotypes), they constitute a major portion of individual reads (similar to 1/3), and are predictable among independent samples of humans, in terms of both the occurrence and evolutionary relatedness (more closely related than randomly drawn equal sets of phylotypes). Thus, the hypothesis that oligarchs dominate diverse assemblages appears to be supported by human-associated bacteria. Although it remains difficult to predict which species of bacteria might be found on a particular human, predicting which species are most frequent (or rare) seems more straightforward, at least for those species living in belly buttons.	2012	10.1371/journal.pone.0047712
Sato, H; Tsujino, R; Kurita, K; Yokoyama, K; Agata, K	Modelling the global distribution of fungal species: new insights into microbial cosmopolitanism	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	Microbes are usually believed to have cosmopolitan distributions. However, for estimating the global distributions of microorganisms, discriminating among cryptic species and eliminating undersampling biases are important challenges. We used a novel approach to address these problems and infer the global distribution of a given fungal ecological guild. We collected mushroom-forming fungi from Yakushima, Japan. We sequenced the internal transcribed spacer 2 (ITS2) from these samples and queried their sequences against GenBank. After identifying similar sequences, we tracked down the geographical origins of samples that yielded those sequences. We used Bayesian zero-inflated models to allow for species whose DNA sequences have not yet been deposited in GenBank. Results indicated that the geographical distribution of ectomycorrhizal (ECM) fungi was strongly constrained by host specificity, resulting in the occurrence of these fungi intensively in the neighbouring regions. On the other hand, saprotrophic (SAP) fungi were less constrained by climatic conditions, resulting in a much broader distribution range. We inferred that differences in constraints during colonization between ECM and SAP fungi were responsible for the different geographical distribution ranges. We hypothesize that the degree of host/habitat specificity and the degree of isolation of potentially suitable habitats determine microbial biogeographic patterns.	2012	10.1111/mec.12053
Michaud, AB; Sabacka, M; Priscu, JC	Cyanobacterial diversity across landscape units in a polar desert: Taylor Valley, Antarctica	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Life in the Taylor Valley, Antarctica, is dominated by microorganisms, with cyanobacteria being key primary producers in the region. Despite their abundance and ecological importance, the factors controlling biogeography, diversity, dispersal of cyanobacteria in Taylor Valley and other polar environments are poorly understood. Owing to persistent high winds, we hypothesize that the cyanobacterial diversity across this polar landscape is influenced by aeolian processes. Using molecular and pigment analysis, we describe the cyanobacterial diversity present in several prominent habitats across the Taylor Valley. Our data show that the diversity of cyanobacteria increases from the upper portion of the valley towards the McMurdo Sound. This trend is likely due to the net transport of organisms in a down-valley direction, consistent with the prevailing orientation of high-energy, episodic fohn winds. Genomic analysis of cyanobacteria present in aeolian material also suggests that wind mixes the cyanobacterial phylotypes among the landscape units. Our 16S rRNA gene sequence data revealed that (1) many of the cyanobacterial phylotypes present in our study site are common in polar or alpine environments, (2) many operational taxonomic units (OTUs) (22) were endemic to Antarctica and (3) four OTUs were potentially endemic to the McMurdo Dry Valleys.	2012	10.1111/j.1574-6941.2012.01297.x
Printzen, C; Fernandez-Mendoza, F; Muggia, L; Berg, G; Grube, M	Alphaproteobacterial communities in geographically distant populations of the lichen Cetraria aculeata	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Lichen symbioses were recently shown to include diverse bacterial communities. Although the biogeography of lichen species is fairly well known, the patterns of their bacterial associates are relatively poorly understood. Here we analyse the composition of Alphaproteobacteria in Cetraria aculeata, a common lichen species that occurs at high latitudes and various habitats. Using clone libraries we show that most of the associated Alphaproteobacteria belong to Acetobacteraceae, which have also been found previously in other lichen species of acidic soils and rocks in alpine habitats. The majority of alphaproteobacterial sequences from C.aculeata are very similar to each other and form a single clade. Data from C.aculeata reveal that alphaproteobacterial communities of high latitudes are depauperate and more closely related to each other than to those of extrapolar habitats. This agrees with previous findings for the fungal and algal symbiont in this lichen. Similar to the algal partner, the composition of lichen alphaproteobacterial communities is affected by environmental parameters.	2012	10.1111/j.1574-6941.2012.01358.x
Jungblut, AD; Vincent, WF; Lovejoy, C	Eukaryotes in Arctic and Antarctic cyanobacterial mats	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Cyanobacterial mats are commonly found in freshwater ecosystems throughout the polar regions. Most mats are multilayered three-dimensional structures with the filamentous cyanobacteria embedded in a gel-like matrix. Although early descriptions mentioned the presence of larger organisms including metazoans living in the mats, there have been few studies specifically focused on the microbial eukaryotes, which are often small cells with few morphological features suitable for identification by microscopy. Here, we applied 18S rRNA gene clone library analysis to identify eukaryotes in cyanobacterial mat communities from both the Antarctic and the extreme High Arctic. We identified 39 ribotypes at the level of 99% sequence similarity. These consisted of taxa within algal and other protist groups including Chlorophyceae, Prasinophyceae, Ulvophyceae, Trebouxiophyceae, Bacillariophyceae, Chrysophyceae, Ciliophora, and Cercozoa. Fungi were also recovered, as were 21 metazoan ribotypes. The eukaryotic taxa appeared habitat-specific with little overlap between lake, pond, and ice shelf communities. Some ribotypes were common to both Arctic and Antarctic mats, suggesting global dispersal of these taxa and similarity in the environmental filters acting on protist communities. Many of these eukaryotic taxa likely benefit from protected, nutrient-rich microhabitats within the cyanobacterial mat environment.	2012	10.1111/j.1574-6941.2012.01418.x
Strunecky, O; Elster, J; Komarek, J	Molecular clock evidence for survival of Antarctic cyanobacteria (Oscillatoriales, Phormidium autumnale) from Paleozoic times	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Cyanobacteria are well adapted to freezing and desiccation; they have been proposed as possible survivors of comprehensive Antarctic glaciations. Filamentous types from the order Oscillatoriales, especially the species Phormidium autumnale Kutzing ex Gomont 1892, have widely diverse morphotypes that dominate in Antarctic aquatic microbial mats, seepages, and wet soils. Currently little is known about the dispersion of cyanobacteria in Antarctica and of their population history. We tested the hypothesis that cyanobacteria survived Antarctic glaciations directly on site after the Gondwana breakup by using the relaxed and strict molecular clock in the analysis of the 16S rRNA gene. We estimated that the biogeographic history of Antarctic cyanobacteria belonging to P.autumnale lineages has ancient origins. The oldest go further back in time than the breakup of Gondwana and originated somewhere on the supercontinent between 442 and 297Ma. Enhanced speciation rate was found around the time of the opening of the Drake Passage (c. 3145Ma) with beginning of glaciations (c. 43Ma). Our results, based primarily on the strains collected in maritime Antarctica, mostly around James Ross Island, support the hypothesis that long-term survival took place in glacial refuges. The high morphological diversification of P.autumnale suggested the coevolution of lineages and formation of complex associations with different morphologies, resulting in a specific endemic Antarctic cyanobacterial flora.	2012	10.1111/j.1574-6941.2012.01426.x
Finkel, OM; Burch, AY; Elad, T; Huse, SM; Lindow, SE; Post, AF; Belkin, S	Distance-Decay Relationships Partially Determine Diversity Patterns of Phyllosphere Bacteria on Tamarix Trees across the Sonoran Desert (vol 78, pg 6187, 2012)	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY		2012	10.1128/AEM.02505-12
Bennett, GM; OGrady, PM	Host-plants shape insect diversity: Phylogeny, origin, and species diversity of native Hawaiian leafhoppers (Cicadellidae: Nesophrosyne)	MOLECULAR PHYLOGENETICS AND EVOLUTION	Herbivorous insects and the plants on which they specialize, represent the most abundant terrestrial life on earth, yet their inter-specific interactions in promoting species diversification remains unclear. This study utilizes the discreet geologic attributes of Hawaii and one of the most diverse endemic herbivore radiations, the leafhoppers (Hemiptera: Cicadellidae: Nesophrosyne), as a model system to understand the role of host-plant use in insect diversification. A comprehensive phylogeny is reconstructed to examine the origins, species diversification, and host-plant use of the native Hawaiian leafhoppers. Results support a monophyletic Nesophrosyne, originating from the Western Pacific basin, with a sister-group relationship to the genus Orosius. Nesophrosyne is characterized by high levels of endemicity according to individual islands, volcanoes, and geologic features. Clades demonstrate extensive morphologically cryptic diversity among allopatric species, utilizing widespread host-plant lineages. Nesophrosyne species are host-plant specific, demonstrating four dominant patterns of specialization that shape species diversification: (1) diversification through host switching; (2) specialization on widespread hosts with allopatric speciation; (3) repeated, independent shifts to the same hosts; and, (4) absence or low abundance on some host. Finally, evidence suggests competing herbivore radiations limit ecological opportunity for diversifying insect herbivores. Results provide evolutionary insights into the mechanisms that drive and shape this biodiversity. (C) 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.	2012	10.1016/j.ympev.2012.07.024
Trabelsi, D; Ben Ammar, H; Mengoni, A; Mhamdi, R	Appraisal of the crop-rotation effect of rhizobial inoculation on potato cropping systems in relation to soil bacterial communities	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	Non-legume crops grown in rotation with legumes usually have reduced N-fertilizer requirement, which has both economic and environmental benefits. In this study, we aimed to assess the indirect effect of Phaseolus vulgaris inoculation with two indigenous rhizobia strains on potato growth promotion and disease control in relation to inoculation effects on soil bacterial communities. T-RFLP profiling demonstrated that inoculation significantly increased the phylotype richness of the bacterial communities at the end of P. vulgaris life cycle. A significant difference in richness between simple and dual inoculation was found. Effects on bacterial structure are clearly sensed with both inoculants. Various bacteria like Halomonas, Arthrobacter, Rahnella, Actinobacterium and Frankia were enhanced by inoculation irrespective of the inoculant type. However, other bacteria like Clostridium, Bacillus, Stenotrophomonas and Xanthomonas were enhanced by rhizobial mono-inoculation only and not by co-inoculation with both strains. Some bacteria may potentially behave like plant growth promoting rhizobacteria (PGPR) towards potatoes grown in rotation with common bean, as indicated by the 32% increase observed in potato yield, and also by the 56% decrease in potato wireworm infection. Therefore, rhizobia inoculation may contribute to the rotational benefits of legumes in potato cropping systems not only by providing fixed nitrogen, but also by increasing microbial diversity and structure, potentially stimulating plant growth promoting rhizobacteria and enhancing disease control. However, these effects depend largely on inoculant formulation. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2012	10.1016/j.soilbio.2012.05.013
Decelle, J; Probert, I; Bittner, L; Desdevises, Y; Colin, S; de Vargas, C; Gali, M; Simo, R; Not, F	An original mode of symbiosis in open ocean plankton	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	Symbiotic relationships are widespread in nature and are fundamental for ecosystem functioning and the evolution of biodiversity. In marine environments, photosymbiosis with microalgae is best known for sustaining benthic coral reef ecosystems. Despite the importance of oceanic microbiota in global ecology and biogeochemical cycles, symbioses are poorly characterized in open ocean plankton. Here, we describe a widespread symbiotic association between Acantharia biomineralizing microorganisms that are abundant grazers in plankton communities, and members of the haptophyte genus Phaeocystis that are cosmopolitan bloom-forming microalgae. Cophylogenetic analyses demonstrate that symbiont biogeography, rather than host taxonomy, is the main determinant of the association. Molecular dating places the origin of this photosymbiosis in the Jurassic (ca. 175 Mya), a period of accentuated marine oligotrophy. Measurements of intracellular dimethylated sulfur indicate that the host likely profits from antioxidant protection provided by the symbionts as an adaptation to life in transparent oligotrophic surface waters. In contrast to terrestrial and marine symbioses characterized to date, the symbiont reported in this association is extremely abundant and ecologically active in its free-living phase. In the vast and barren open ocean, partnership with photosymbionts that have extensive free-living populations is likely an advantageous strategy for hosts that rely on such interactions. Discovery of the Acantharia-Phaeocystis association contrasts with the widely held view that symbionts are specialized organisms that are rare and ecologically passive outside the host.	2012	10.1073/pnas.1212303109
Marsh, L; Copley, JT; Huvenne, VAI; Linse, K; Reid, WDK; Rogers, AD; Sweeting, CJ; Tyler, PA	Microdistribution of Faunal Assemblages at Deep-Sea Hydrothermal Vents in the Southern Ocean	PLOS ONE	Chemosynthetic primary production by microbes supports abundant faunal assemblages at deep-sea hydrothermal vents, with zonation of invertebrate species typically occurring along physico-chemical gradients. Recently discovered vent fields on the East Scotia Ridge (ESR) in the Southern Ocean represent a new province of vent biogeography, but the spatial dynamics of their distinct fauna have yet to be elucidated. This study determines patterns of faunal zonation, species associations, and relationships between faunal microdistribution and hydrothermal activity in a vent field at a depth of 2,400 m on the ESR. Remotely operated vehicle (ROV) dives obtained high-definition imagery of three chimney structures with varying levels of hydrothermal activity, and a mosaic image of > 250 m(2) of seafloor co-registered with temperature measurements. Analysis of faunal microdistribution within the mosaiced seafloor reveals a consistent pattern of faunal zonation with increasing distance from vent sources and peak temperatures. Assemblages closest to vent sources are visibly dominated by a new species of anomuran crab, Kiwa n. sp. (abundance > 700 individuals m(-2)), followed by a peltospiroid gastropod (> 1,500 individuals m(-2)), eolepadid barnacle (> 1,500 individuals m(-2)), and carnivorous actinostolid anemone (> 30 individuals m(-2)). Peripheral fauna are not dominated by a single taxon, but include predatory and scavenger taxa such as stichasterid seastars, pycnogonids and octopus. Variation in faunal microdistribution on chimneys with differing levels of activity suggests a possible successional sequence for vent fauna in this new biogeographic province. An increase in delta S-34 values of primary consumers with distance from vent sources, and variation in their delta C-13 values also indicate possible zonation of nutritional modes of the vent fauna. By using ROV videography to obtain a high-resolution representation of a vent environment over a greater extent than previous studies, these results provide a baseline for determining temporal change and investigations of processes structuring faunal assemblages at Southern Ocean vents.	2012	10.1371/journal.pone.0048348
Ghiglione, JF; Galand, PE; Pommier, T; Pedros-Alio, C; Maas, EW; Bakker, K; Bertilson, S; Kirchman, DL; Lovejoy, C; Yager, PL; Murray, AE	Pole-to-pole biogeography of surface and deep marine bacterial communities	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	The Antarctic and Arctic regions offer a unique opportunity to test factors shaping biogeography of marine microbial communities because these regions are geographically far apart, yet share similar selection pressures. Here, we report a comprehensive comparison of bacterioplankton diversity between polar oceans, using standardized methods for pyrosequencing the V6 region of the small subunit ribosomal (SSU) rRNA gene. Bacterial communities from lower latitude oceans were included, providing a global perspective. A clear difference between Southern and Arctic Ocean surface communities was evident, with 78% of operational taxonomic units (OTUs) unique to the Southern Ocean and 70% unique to the Arctic Ocean. Although polar ocean bacterial communities were more similar to each other than to lower latitude pelagic communities, analyses of depths, seasons, and coastal vs. open waters, the Southern and Arctic Ocean bacterioplankton communities consistently clustered separately from each other. Coastal surface Southern and Arctic Ocean communities were more dissimilar from their respective open ocean communities. In contrast, deep ocean communities differed less between poles and lower latitude deep waters and displayed different diversity patterns compared with the surface. In addition, estimated diversity (Chao1) for surface and deep communities did not correlate significantly with latitude or temperature. Our results suggest differences in environmental conditions at the poles and different selection mechanisms controlling surface and deep ocean community structure and diversity. Surface bacterioplankton may be subjected to more short-term, variable conditions, whereas deep communities appear to be structured by longer water-mass residence time and connectivity through ocean circulation.	2012	10.1073/pnas.1208160109
Li, D; Sharp, JO; Saikaly, PE; Ali, S; Alidina, M; Alarawi, MS; Keller, S; Hoppe-Jones, C; Drewes, JE	Dissolved Organic Carbon Influences Microbial Community Composition and Diversity in Managed Aquifer Recharge Systems	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	This study explores microbial community structure in managed aquifer recharge (MAR) systems across both laboratory and field scales. Two field sites, the Taif River (Taif, Saudi Arabia) and South Platte River (Colorado), were selected as geographically distinct MAR systems. Samples derived from unsaturated riverbed, saturated-shallow-infiltration (depth, 1 to 2 cm), and intermediate-infiltration (depth, 10 to 50 cm) zones were collected. Complementary laboratory-scale sediment columns representing low (0.6 mg/liter) and moderate (5 mg/liter) dissolved organic carbon (DOC) concentrations were used to further query the influence of DOC and depth on microbial assemblages. Microbial density was positively correlated with the DOC concentration, while diversity was negatively correlated at both the laboratory and field scales. Microbial communities derived from analogous sampling zones in each river were not phylogenetically significantly different on phylum, class, genus, and species levels, as determined by 16S rRNA gene pyrosequencing, suggesting that geography and season exerted less sway than aqueous geochemical properties. When field-scale communities derived from the Taif and South Platte River sediments were grouped together, principal coordinate analysis revealed distinct clusters with regard to the three sample zones (unsaturated, shallow, and intermediate saturated) and, further, with respect to DOC concentration. An analogous trend as a function of depth and corresponding DOC loss was observed in column studies. Canonical correspondence analysis suggests that microbial classes Betaproteobacteria and Gammaproteobacteria are positively correlated with DOC concentration. Our combined analyses at both the laboratory and field scales suggest that DOC may exert a strong influence on microbial community composition and diversity in MAR saturated zones.	2012	10.1128/AEM.01223-12
Bonilla-Rosso, G; Eguiarte, LE; Romero, D; Travisano, M; Souza, V	Understanding microbial community diversity metrics derived from metagenomes: performance evaluation using simulated data sets	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Metagenomics holds the promise of greatly advancing the study of diversity in natural communities, but novel theoretical and methodological approaches must first be developed and adjusted for these data sets. We evaluated widely used macroecological metrics of taxonomic diversity on a simulated set of metagenomic samples, using phylogenetically meaningful protein-coding genes as ecological proxies. To our knowledge, this is the first approach of this kind to evaluate taxonomic diversity metrics derived from metagenomic data sets. We demonstrate that abundance matrices derived from protein-coding marker genes reproduce more faithfully the structure of the original community than those derived from SSU-rRNA gene. We also found that the most commonly used diversity metrics are biased estimators of community structure and differ significantly from their corresponding real parameters and that these biases are most likely caused by insufficient sampling and differences in community phylogenetic composition. Our results suggest that the ranking of samples using multidimensional metrics makes a good qualitative alternative for contrasting community structure and that these comparisons can be greatly improved with the incorporation of metrics for both community structure and phylogenetic diversity. These findings will help to achieve a standardized framework for community diversity comparisons derived from metagenomic data sets.	2012	10.1111/j.1574-6941.2012.01405.x
Magalhaes, C; Stevens, MI; Cary, SC; Ball, BA; Storey, BC; Wall, DH; Turk, R; Ruprecht, U	At Limits of Life: Multidisciplinary Insights Reveal Environmental Constraints on Biotic Diversity in Continental Antarctica	PLOS ONE	Multitrophic communities that maintain the functionality of the extreme Antarctic terrestrial ecosystems, while the simplest of any natural community, are still challenging our knowledge about the limits to life on earth. In this study, we describe and interpret the linkage between the diversity of different trophic level communities to the geological morphology and soil geochemistry in the remote Transantarctic Mountains (Darwin Mountains, 80 degrees S). We examined the distribution and diversity of biota (bacteria, cyanobacteria, lichens, algae, invertebrates) with respect to elevation, age of glacial drift sheets, and soil physicochemistry. Results showed an abiotic spatial gradient with respect to the diversity of the organisms across different trophic levels. More complex communities, in terms of trophic level diversity, were related to the weakly developed younger drifts (Hatherton and Britannia) with higher soil C/N ratio and lower total soluble salts content (thus lower conductivity). Our results indicate that an increase of ion concentration from younger to older drift regions drives a succession of complex to more simple communities, in terms of number of trophic levels and diversity within each group of organisms analysed. This study revealed that integrating diversity across multi-trophic levels of biotic communities with abiotic spatial heterogeneity and geological history is fundamental to understand environmental constraints influencing biological distribution in Antarctic soil ecosystems.	2012	10.1371/journal.pone.0044578
Jiang, XP; Langille, MGI; Neches, RY; Elliot, M; Levin, SA; Eisen, JA; Weitz, JS; Dushoff, J	Functional Biogeography of Ocean Microbes Revealed through Non-Negative Matrix Factorization	PLOS ONE	The direct metagenomic sequencing of genomic material from complex assemblages of bacteria, archaea, viruses and microeukaryotes has yielded new insights into the structure of microbial communities. For example, analysis of metagenomic data has revealed the existence of previously unknown microbial taxa whose spatial distributions are limited by environmental conditions, ecological competition, and dispersal mechanisms. However, differences in genotypes that might lead biologists to designate two microbes as taxonomically distinct need not necessarily imply differences in ecological function. Hence, there is a growing need for large-scale analysis of the distribution of microbial function across habitats. Here, we present a framework for investigating the biogeography of microbial function by analyzing the distribution of protein families inferred from environmental sequence data across a global collection of sites. We map over 6,000,000 protein sequences from unassembled reads from the Global Ocean Survey dataset to 8214 protein families, generating a protein family relative abundance matrix that describes the distribution of each protein family across sites. We then use non-negative matrix factorization (NMF) to approximate these protein family profiles as linear combinations of a small number of ecological components. Each component has a characteristic functional profile and site profile. Our approach identifies common functional signatures within several of the components. We use our method as a filter to estimate functional distance between sites, and find that an NMF-filtered measure of functional distance is more strongly correlated with environmental distance than a comparable PCA-filtered measure. We also find that functional distance is more strongly correlated with environmental distance than with geographic distance, in agreement with prior studies. We identify similar protein functions in several components and suggest that functional co-occurrence across metagenomic samples could lead to future methods for de-novo functional prediction. We conclude by discussing how NMF, and other dimension reduction methods, can help enable a macroscopic functional description of marine ecosystems.	2012	10.1371/journal.pone.0043866
Zhang, YM; Tian, CF; Sui, XH; Chen, WF; Chen, WX	Robust Markers Reflecting Phylogeny and Taxonomy of Rhizobia	PLOS ONE	Genomic ANI (Average Nucleotide Identity) has been found to be able to replace DNA-DNA hybridization in prokaryote taxonomy. The ANI of each of the core genes that has a phylogeny congruent with the reference species tree of rhizobia was compared to the genomic ANI. This allowed us to identify three housekeeping genes (SMc00019-truA-thrA) whose ANI reflected the intraspecies and interspecies genomic ANI among rhizobial strains, revealing an ANI gap (>= 2%) between the inter-and intra-species comparisons. The intraspecies (96%) and interspecies (94%) ANI boundaries calculated from three genes (SMc00019-truA-thrA) provided a criterion for bacterial species definition and confirmed 621/629 of known interspecies relationships within Bradyrhizobium, Mesorhizobium, Sinorhizobium and Rhizobium. Some widely studied strains should be renamed. The SMc00019-truA-thrA ANI also correlates well with the genomic ANI of strains in Agrobacterium, Methylobacterium, Ralstonia, Rhodopseudomonas, Cupriavidus and Burkholderia, suggesting their wide applicability in other bacteria.	2012	10.1371/journal.pone.0044936
Vollan, HS; Tannaes, T; Yamaoka, Y; Bukholm, G	In silico evolutionary analysis of Helicobacter pylori outer membrane phospholipase A (OMPLA)	BMC MICROBIOLOGY	Background: In the past decade, researchers have proposed that the pldA gene for outer membrane phospholipase A (OMPLA) is important for bacterial colonization of the human gastric ventricle. Several conserved Helicobacter pylori genes have distinct genotypes in different parts of the world, biogeographic patterns that can be analyzed through phylogenetic trees. The current study will shed light on the importance of the pldA gene in H. pylori. In silico sequence analysis will be used to investigate whether the bacteria are in the process of preserving, optimizing, or rejecting the pldA gene. The pldA gene will be phylogenetically compared to other housekeeping (HK) genes, and a possible origin via horizontal gene transfer (HGT) will be evaluated through both intra-and interspecies evolutionary analyses. Results: In this study, pldA gene sequences were phylogenetically analyzed and compared with a large reference set of concatenated HK gene sequences. A total of 246 pldA nucleotide sequences were used; 207 were from Norwegian isolates, 20 were from Korean isolates, and 19 were from the NCBI database. Best-fit evolutionary models were determined with MEGA5 ModelTest for the pldA (K80 + I + G) and HK (GTR + I + G) sequences, and maximum likelihood trees were constructed. Both HK and pldA genes showed biogeographic clustering. Horizontal gene transfer was inferred based on significantly different GC contents, the codon adaptation index, and a phylogenetic conflict between a tree of OMPLA protein sequences representing 171 species and a tree of the AtpA HK protein for 169 species. Although a vast majority of the residues in OMPLA were predicted to be under purifying selection, sites undergoing positive selection were also found. Conclusions: Our findings indicate that the pldA gene could have been more recently acquired than seven of the HK genes found in H. pylori. However, the common biogeographic patterns of both the HK and pldA sequences indicated that the transfer occurred long ago. Our results indicate that the bacterium is preserving the function of OMPLA, although some sites are still being evolutionarily optimized.	2012	10.1186/1471-2180-12-206
Wetzel, CE; Bicudo, DD; Ector, L; Lobo, EA; Soininen, J; Landeiro, VL; Bini, LM	Distance Decay of Similarity in Neotropical Diatom Communities	PLOS ONE	Background: The regression of similarity against distance unites several ecological phenomena, and thus provides a highly useful approach for illustrating the spatial turnover across sites. Our aim was to test whether the rates of decay in community similarity differ between diatom growth forms suggested to show different dispersal ability. We hypothesized that the diatom group with lower dispersal ability (i.e. periphyton) would show higher distance decay rates than a group with higher dispersal ability (i.e. plankton). Methods/Principal findings: Periphyton and phytoplankton samples were gathered at sites distributed over an area of approximately 800 km length in the Negro River, Amazon basin, Brazil, South America (3 degrees 0800  S; 59 degrees 5430  W). Distance decay relationships were then estimated using distance-based regressions, and the coefficients of these regressions were compared among the groups with different dispersal abilities to assess our predictions. We found evidence that different tributaries and reaches of the Negro River harbor different diatom communities. As expected, the rates of distance decay in community similarity were higher for periphyton than for phytoplankton indicating the lower dispersal ability of periphytic taxa. Conclusions/Significance: Our study demonstrates that the comparison of distance decay relationships among taxa with similar ecological requirements, but with different growth form and thus dispersal ability provides a sound approach to evaluate the effects of dispersal ability on beta diversity patterns. Our results are also in line with the growing body of evidence indicating that microorganisms exhibit biogeographic patterns. Finally, we underscore that clumbing all microbial taxa into one group may be a flawed approach to test whether microbes exhibit biogeographic patterns.	2012	10.1371/journal.pone.0045071
Porazinska, DL; Giblin-Davis, RM; Powers, TO; Thomas, WK	Nematode Spatial and Ecological Patterns from Tropical and Temperate Rainforests	PLOS ONE	Large scale diversity patterns are well established for terrestrial macrobiota (e.g. plants and vertebrates), but not for microscopic organisms (e.g. nematodes). Due to small size, high abundance, and extensive dispersal, microbiota are assumed to exhibit cosmopolitan distributions with no biogeographical patterns. This assumption has been extrapolated from local spatial scale studies of a few taxonomic groups utilizing morphological approaches. Recent molecularly-based studies, however, suggest something quite opposite. Nematodes are the most abundant metazoans on earth, but their diversity patterns are largely unknown. We conducted a survey of nematode diversity within three vertical strata (soil, litter, and canopy) of rainforests at two contrasting latitudes in the North American meridian (temperate: the Olympic National Forest, WA, U.S.A and tropical: La Selva Biological Station, Costa Rica) using standardized sampling designs and sample processing protocols. To describe nematode diversity, we applied an ecometagenetic approach using 454 pyrosequencing. We observed that: 1) nematode communities were unique without even a single common species between the two rainforests, 2) nematode communities were unique among habitats in both rainforests, 3) total species richness was 300% more in the tropical than in the temperate rainforest, 4) 80% of the species in the temperate rainforest resided in the soil, whereas only 20% in the tropics, 5) more than 90% of identified species were novel. Overall, our data provided no support for cosmopolitanism at both local (habitats) and large (rainforests) spatial scales. In addition, our data indicated that biogeographical patterns typical of macrobiota also exist for microbiota.	2012	10.1371/journal.pone.0044641
Plassart, P; Terrat, S; Thomson, B; Griffiths, R; Dequiedt, S; Lelievre, M; Regnier, T; Nowak, V; Bailey, M; Lemanceau, P; Bispo, A; Chabbi, A; Maron, PA; Mougel, C; Ranjard, L	Evaluation of the ISO Standard 11063 DNA Extraction Procedure for Assessing Soil Microbial Abundance and Community Structure	PLOS ONE	Soil DNA extraction has become a critical step in describing microbial biodiversity. Historically, ascertaining overarching microbial ecological theories has been hindered as independent studies have used numerous custom and commercial DNA extraction procedures. For that reason, a standardized soil DNA extraction method (ISO-11063) was previously published. However, although this ISO method is suited for molecular tools such as quantitative PCR and community fingerprinting techniques, it has only been optimized for examining soil bacteria. Therefore, the aim of this study was to assess an appropriate soil DNA extraction procedure for examining bacterial, archaeal and fungal diversity in soils of contrasting land-use and physico-chemical properties. Three different procedures were tested: the ISO-11063 standard; a custom procedure (GnS-GII); and a modified ISO procedure (ISOm) which includes a different mechanical lysis step (a FastPrep (R)-24 lysis step instead of the recommended bead-beating). The efficacy of each method was first assessed by estimating microbial biomass through total DNA quantification. Then, the abundances and community structure of bacteria, archaea and fungi were determined using real-time PCR and terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism approaches. Results showed that DNA yield was improved with the GnS-GII and ISOm procedures, and fungal community patterns were found to be strongly dependent on the extraction method. The main methodological factor responsible for differences between extraction procedure efficiencies was found to be the soil homogenization step. For integrative studies which aim to examine bacteria, archaea and fungi simultaneously, the ISOm procedure results in higher DNA recovery and better represents microbial communities.	2012	10.1371/journal.pone.0044279
Lin, YT; Whitman, WB; Coleman, DC; Chiu, CY	Comparison of soil bacterial communities between coastal and inland forests in a subtropical area	APPLIED SOIL ECOLOGY	The diversity and composition of soil bacterial communities in four subtropical coastal forest ecosystems were examined using 16S rRNA gene clone libraries. The communities were collected from forests in two islets. Green Island (GI) and Orchid Island (01), and two coastal forests in Chenggong (CG) and Shitoushan (ST) in southeastern Taiwan. At the elevation ranges from 60 to 340 m, the mean annual precipitation is >2200 mm, the mean annual temperature is about 22 degrees C, and the soil pH is about 5-6. These forests were compared to an inland natural low montane forest ecosystem with less humidity and more acidic soils. The phyla Acidobacteria and Proteobacteria predominated among these forest soil communities. Within the Proteobacteria, the alpha-Proteobacteria was the most abundant group. The proportion of Verrucomicrobia at one 01 study site was significantly higher than that in other communities. Based on the richness and the rarefaction curve analysis, the GI community was the most diverse. Analysis of molecular variance revealed that the communities at two islet soils and coastal soils were similar, although these islets are isolated ecosystems. Most of the abundant operational taxonomic units (OTUs) did not differ significantly among the coastal forest soils. Compared to coastal forest soil communities, the inland natural forest soil community was less diverse and Proteobacteria accounted for more than half of the community. In contrast to the coastal communities, gamma-Proteobacteria was the most abundant proteobacterial class in the inland community, and the most abundant OTU only existed in inland soils. These results suggest that climate conditions and soil characteristics affect the bacterial community composition in coastal and inland forest soils. Disturbance by human activity is another factor that may influence the diversity of the coastal forest soil community. (C) 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2012	10.1016/j.apsoil.2012.03.001
Belviso, S; Masotti, I; Tagliabue, A; Bopp, L; Brockmann, P; Fichot, C; Caniaux, G; Prieur, L; Ras, J; Uitz, J; Loisel, H; Dessailly, D; Alvain, S; Kasamatsu, N; Fukuchi, M	DMS dynamics in the most oligotrophic subtropical zones of the global ocean	BIOGEOCHEMISTRY	The influences of physico-chemical and biological processes on dimethylsulfide (DMS) dynamics in the most oligotrophic subtropical zones of the global ocean were investigated. As metrics for the dynamics of DMS and the so-called summer DMS paradox of elevated summer concentrations when surface chlorophyll a (Chl) and particulate organic carbon (POC) levels are lowest, we used the DMS-to-Chl and DMS-to-POC ratios in the context of three independent and complementary approaches. Firstly, field observations of environmental variables (such as the solar radiation dose, phosphorus limitation of phytoplankton and bacterial growth) were used alongside discrete DMS, Chl and POC estimates extracted from global climatologies (i.e., a station based approach). We then used monthly climatological data for DMS, Chl, and POC averaged over the biogeographic province wherein a given oligotrophic subtropical zone resides (i.e., a province based approach). Finally we employed sensitivity experiments with a new DMS module coupled to the ocean general circulation and biogeochemistry model PISCES to examine the influence of various processes in governing DMS dynamics in oligotrophic regions (i.e., a model based approach). We find that the station based and province based approaches yield markedly different results. Interestingly, the province based approach suggests the presence of a summer DMS paradox in most all of the oligotrophic regions we studied. In contrast, the station based approach suggests that the summer DMS paradox is only present in the Sargasso Sea and eastern Mediterranean. Overall, we found the regional differences in the absolute and relative concentrations of DMS between 5 of the most oligotrophic regions of the worlds oceans were better accounted for by their nutrient dynamics (specifically phosphorus limitation) than by physical factors often invoked, e.g., the solar radiation dose. Our model based experiments suggest that it is the limitation of phytoplankton/bacterial production and bacterial consumption of DMS by pervasive phosphorus limitation that is responsible for the summer DMS paradox.	2012	10.1007/s10533-011-9648-1
Tedersoo, L; Bahram, M; Toots, M; Diedhiou, AG; Henkel, TW; Kjoller, R; Morris, MH; Nara, K; Nouhra, E; Peay, KG; Polme, S; Ryberg, M; Smith, ME; Koljalg, U	Towards global patterns in the diversity and community structure of ectomycorrhizal fungi	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	Global species richness patterns of soil micro-organisms remain poorly understood compared to macro-organisms. We use a global analysis to disentangle the global determinants of diversity and community composition for ectomycorrhizal (EcM) fungi-microbial symbionts that play key roles in plant nutrition in most temperate and many tropical forest ecosystems. Host plant family has the strongest effect on the phylogenetic community composition of fungi, whereas temperature and precipitation mostly affect EcM fungal richness that peaks in the temperate and boreal forest biomes, contrasting with latitudinal patterns of macro-organisms. Tropical ecosystems experience rapid turnover of organic material and have weak soil stratification, suggesting that poor habitat conditions may contribute to the relatively low richness of EcM fungi, and perhaps other soil biota, in most tropical ecosystems. For EcM fungi, greater evolutionary age and larger total area of EcM host vegetation may also contribute to the higher diversity in temperate ecosystems. Our results provide useful biogeographic and ecological hypotheses for explaining the distribution of fungi that remain to be tested by involving next-generation sequencing techniques and relevant soil metadata.	2012	10.1111/j.1365-294X.2012.05602.x
ODor, R; Boustany, AM; Chittenden, CM; Costello, MJ; Moustahfid, H; Payne, J; Steinke, D; Stokesbury, MJW; Vanden Berghe, E	A Census of Fishes and Everything They Eat: How the Census of Marine Life Advanced Fisheries Science	FISHERIES	The Census of Marine Life was a 10-year, international research effort to explore poorly known ocean habitats and conduct large-scale experimentation with new technology. The goal of Census 2010 in its mission statement was to describe what did live in the oceans, what does live in the oceans, and what will live in the ocean. Many of the findings and techniques from census research may prove valuable in making a transition, which many governments have publicly endorsed, from single-species fisheries management to more holistic ecosystem management. Census researchers sampled continental margins, mid-Atlantic ridges, ocean floor vents and seeps, and abyssal plains and polar seas and organized massive amounts of past and new information in a public online database called the Ocean Biogeographic Information System (www.iobis.org). The census described and categorized seamount biology worldwide for its vulnerability to fishing, advanced large-scale animal tracking with acoustic arrays and satellite archival tags, and accelerated species identification, including nearshore, coral reef, and zooplankton sampling using genetic barcoding and pyrotag sequencing for microbes and helped to launch the exciting new field of marine environmental history. Above all, the census showed the value of investing in large-scale, collaborative projects and sharing results publicly.	2012	10.1080/03632415.2012.714323
Beck, RMD	An ameridelphian marsupial from the early Eocene of Australia supports a complex model of Southern Hemisphere marsupial biogeography	NATURWISSENSCHAFTEN	Recent molecular data strongly support the monophyly of all extant Australian and New Guinean marsupials (Eomarsupialia) to the exclusion of extant South American marsupials. This, together with available geological and fossil evidence, has been used to argue that the presence of marsupials in Australia is simply the result of a single dispersal event from South America during the latest Cretaceous or Palaeocene, without subsequent dispersals between the two continents. Here, I describe an isolated ankle bone (calcaneus) of a metatherian from the early Eocene Tingamarra Local Fauna in northeastern Australia. Strikingly, this specimen, QM F30060, lacks the continuous lower ankle joint pattern (CLAJP), presence of which is a highly distinctive apomorphy of the marsupial clade Australidelphia, which includes Eomarsupialia, the living South American microbiotherian Dromiciops and the Tingamarran fossil marsupial Djarthia. Comparisons with a range of marsupials and stem-metatherians strongly suggest that the absence of the CLAJP in QM F30060 is plesiomorphic, and that this specimen represents the first unequivocal non-australidelphian (ameridelphian) metatherian known from Australia. This interpretation is confirmed by phylogenetic analyses that place QM F30060 within (crown-group) Marsupialia, but outside Australidelphia. Based on these results, the distribution of marsupials within Gondwana cannot be explained by simply a single dispersal event from South America and Australia. Either there were multiple dispersals by marsupials (and possibly also stem-metatherians) between South America and Australia, in one or both directions, or, alternatively, there was a broadly similar metatherian fauna stretching across southern South America, Antarctica and Australia during the Late Cretaceous-early Palaeogene.	2012	10.1007/s00114-012-0953-x
Crump, BC; Amaral-Zettler, LA; Kling, GW	Microbial diversity in arctic freshwaters is structured by inoculation of microbes from soils	ISME JOURNAL	Microbes are transported in hydrological networks through many environments, but the nature and dynamics of underlying microbial metacommunities and the impact of downslope inoculation on patterns of microbial diversity across landscapes are unknown. Pyrosequencing of small subunit ribosomal RNA gene hypervariable regions to characterize microbial communities along a hydrological continuum in arctic tundra showed a pattern of decreasing diversity downslope, with highest species richness in soil waters and headwater streams, and lowest richness in lake water. In a downstream lake, 58% and 43% of the bacterial and archaeal taxa, respectively, were also detected in diverse upslope communities, including most of the numerically dominant lake taxa. In contrast, only 18% of microbial eukaryotic taxa in the lake were detected upslope. We suggest that patterns of diversity in surface waters are structured by initial inoculation from microbial reservoirs in soils followed by a species-sorting process during downslope dispersal of both common and rare microbial taxa. Our results suggest that, unlike for metazoans, a substantial portion of bacterial and archaeal diversity in surface freshwaters may originate in complex soil environments. The ISME Journal (2012) 6, 1629-1639; doi:10.1038/ismej.2012.9; published online 1 March 2012	2012	10.1038/ismej.2012.9
Stegen, JC; Lin, XJ; Konopka, AE; Fredrickson, JK	Stochastic and deterministic assembly processes in subsurface microbial communities	ISME JOURNAL	A major goal of microbial community ecology is to understand the forces that structure community composition. Deterministic selection by specific environmental factors is sometimes important, but in other cases stochastic or ecologically neutral processes dominate. Lacking is a unified conceptual framework aiming to understand why deterministic processes dominate in some contexts but not others. Here we work toward such a framework. By testing predictions derived from general ecological theory we aim to uncover factors that govern the relative influences of deterministic and stochastic processes. We couple spatiotemporal data on subsurface microbial communities and environmental parameters with metrics and null models of within and between community phylogenetic composition. Testing for phylogenetic signal in organismal niches showed that more closely related taxa have more similar habitat associations. Community phylogenetic analyses further showed that ecologically similar taxa coexist to a greater degree than expected by chance. Environmental filtering thus deterministically governs subsurface microbial community composition. More importantly, the influence of deterministic environmental filtering relative to stochastic factors was maximized at both ends of an environmental variation gradient. A stronger role of stochastic factors was, however, supported through analyses of phylogenetic temporal turnover. Although phylogenetic turnover was on average faster than expected, most pairwise comparisons were not themselves significantly non-random. The relative influence of deterministic environmental filtering over community dynamics was elevated, however, in the most temporally and spatially variable environments. Our results point to general rules governing the relative influences of stochastic and deterministic processes across micro- and macro-organisms. The ISME Journal (2012) 6, 1653-1664; doi:10.1038/ismej.2012.22; published online 29 March 2012	2012	10.1038/ismej.2012.22
Baho, DL; Peter, H; Tranvik, LJ	Resistance and resilience of microbial communities - temporal and spatial insurance against perturbations	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Bacteria play fundamental roles for many ecosystem processes; however, little empirical evidence is available on how environmental perturbations affect their composition and function. We investigated how spatial and temporal refuges affect the resistance and resilience of a freshwater bacterioplankton community upon a salinity pulse perturbation in continuous cultures. Attachment to a surface avoided the flushing out of cells and enabled re-colonization of the liquid phase after the perturbation, hence serving as a temporal refuge. A spatial refuge was established by introduction of bacteria from an undisturbed reservoir upstream of the continuous culture vessel, acting analogous to a regional species pool in a metacommunity. The salinity pulse affected bacterial community composition and the rates of respiration and the pattern of potential substrate utilization as well as the correlation between composition and function. Compared with the no-refuge treatment, the temporal refuge shortened return to pre-perturbation conditions, indicating enhanced community resilience. Composition and function were less disturbed in the treatment providing a spatial refuge, suggesting higher resistance. Our results highlight that spatial and temporal dynamics in general and refuges in particular need to be considered for conceptual progress in how microbial metacommunities are shaped by perturbations.	2012	10.1111/j.1462-2920.2012.02754.x
Rebollar, EA; Avitia, M; Eguiarte, LE; Gonzalez-Gonzalez, A; Mora, L; Bonilla-Rosso, G; Souza, V	Water-sediment niche differentiation in ancient marine lineages of Exiguobacterium endemic to the Cuatro Cienegas Basin	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	The evolutionary history and ecological differentiation of the genus Exiguobacterium was characterized within natural communities from the Cuatro Cienegas Basin, Mexico. Exiguobacterium comprises both halophilic and alkaliphilic bacteria that are abundant among the aquatic systems of the Cuatro Cienegas Basin. We obtained complete sequences of the 16srRNA gene and partial sequences of four housekeeping genes (citC, rpoB, recA and hsp70) in 183 Exiguobacterium isolates retrieved from distinct aquatic systems. We defined three main phylogroups that are closely related to marine and thermophilic species of the genus. These phylogroups were neither specific to a given aquatic system nor to a particular salinity. Phylogenetic reconstruction indicated the presence of several small clusters within the phylogroups. These clusters consisted of isolates predominantly retrieved from sediment or water. Unifrac and AdaptML analyses confirmed this observation, pointing towards a clear pattern of differentiation linked to either sediment or water habitats. Our results are in line with the concept that niche differentiation is one of the main factors shaping prokaryotic populations and leading to evolutionary divergence.	2012	10.1111/j.1462-2920.2012.02784.x
Lebret, K; Kritzberg, ES; Figueroa, R; Rengefors, K	Genetic diversity within and genetic differentiation between blooms of a microalgal species	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	The field of genetic diversity in protists, particularly phytoplankton, is under expansion. However, little is known regarding variation in genetic diversity within populations over time. The aim of our study was to investigate intrapopulation genetic diversity and genetic differentiation in the freshwater bloom-forming microalga Gonyostomum semen (Raphidophyceae). The study covered a 2-year period including all phases of the bloom. Amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) was used to determine the genetic structure and diversity of the population. Our results showed a significant differentiation between samples collected during the two blooms from consecutive years. Also, an increase of gene diversity and a loss of differentiation among sampling dates were observed over time within a single bloom. The latter observations may reflect the continuous germination of cysts from the sediment. The life cycle characteristics of G. semen, particularly reproduction and recruitment, most likely explain a high proportion of the observed variation. This study highlights the importance of the life cycle for the intraspecific genetic diversity of microbial species, which alternates between sexual and asexual reproduction.	2012	10.1111/j.1462-2920.2012.02769.x
Xiong, JB; Liu, YQ; Lin, XG; Zhang, HY; Zeng, J; Hou, JZ; Yang, YP; Yao, TD; Knight, R; Chu, HY	Geographic distance and pH drive bacterial distribution in alkaline lake sediments across Tibetan Plateau	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Continent-scale biogeography has been extensively studied in soils and marine systems, but little is known about biogeographical patterns in non-marine sediments. We used barcode pyrosequencing to quantify the effects of local geochemical properties and geographic distance for bacterial community structure and membership, using sediment samples from 15 lakes on the Tibetan Plateau (41670 km apart). Bacterial communities were surprisingly diverse, and distinct from soil communities. Four of 26 phyla detected were dominant: Proteobacteria, Bacteroidetes, Firmicutes and Actinobacteria, albeit 20.2% of sequences were unclassified at the phylum level. As previously observed in acidic soil, pH was the dominant factor influencing alkaline sediment community structure, phylotype richness and phylogenetic diversity. In contrast, archaeal communities were less affected by pH. More geographically distant sites had more dissimilar communities (r = 0.443, P = 0.030). Variance partitioning analysis showed that geographic distance (historical contingencies) contributed more to bacterial community variation (12.2%) than any other factor, although the environmental factors explained more variance when combined (28.9%). Together, our results show that pH is the best predictor of bacterial community structure in alkaline sediments, and confirm that both geographic distance and chemical factors govern bacterial biogeography in lake sediments.	2012	10.1111/j.1462-2920.2012.02799.x
Finkel, OM; Burch, AY; Elad, T; Huse, SM; Lindow, SE; Post, AF; Belkin, S	Distance-Decay Relationships Partially Determine Diversity Patterns of Phyllosphere Bacteria on Tamrix Trees across the Sonoran Desert	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Dispersal limitation in phyllosphere communities was measured on the leaf surfaces of salt-excreting Tamarix trees, which offer unique, discrete habitats for microbial assemblages. We employed 16S rRNA gene pyrosequencing to measure bacterial community dissimilarity on leaves of spatially dispersed Tamarix specimens in sites with uniform climatic conditions across the Sonoran Desert in the Southwestern United States. Our analyses revealed diverse bacterial communities with four dominant phyla that exhibited differential effects of environmental and geographic variables. Geographical distance was the most important parameter that affected community composition, particularly that of betaproteobacteria, which displayed a statistically significant, distance-decay relationship.	2012	10.1128/AEM.00888-12
Emerson, JB; Thomas, BC; Andrade, K; Allen, EE; Heidelberg, KB; Banfield, JF	Dynamic Viral Populations in Hypersaline Systems as Revealed by Metagenomic Assembly	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Viruses of the Bacteria and Archaea play important roles in microbial evolution and ecology, and yet viral dynamics in natural systems remain poorly understood. Here, we created de novo assemblies from 6.4 Gbp of metagenomic sequence from eight community viral concentrate samples, collected from 12 h to 3 years apart from hypersaline Lake Tyrrell (LT), Victoria, Australia. Through extensive manual assembly curation, we reconstructed 7 complete and 28 partial novel genomes of viruses and virus-like entities (VLEs, which could be viruses or plasmids). We tracked these 35 populations across the eight samples and found that they are generally stable on the timescale of days and transient on the timescale of years, with some exceptions. Cross-detection of the 35 LT populations in three previously described haloviral metagenomes was limited to a few genes, and most previously sequenced haloviruses were not detected in our samples, though 3 were detected upon reducing our detection threshold from 90% to 75% nucleotide identity. Similar results were obtained when we applied our methods to haloviral metagenomic data previously reported from San Diego, CA: 10 contigs that we assembled from that system exhibited a variety of detection patterns on a timescale of weeks to 1 month but were generally not detected in LT. Our results suggest that most haloviral populations have a limited or, possibly, a temporally variable global distribution. This study provides high-resolution insight into viral biogeography and dynamics and it places snapshot viral metagenomes, collected at a single time and location, in context.	2012	10.1128/AEM.01212-12
Lee, YM; Kim, G; Jung, YJ; Choe, CD; Yim, JH; Lee, HK; Hong, SG	Polar and Alpine Microbial Collection (PAMC): a culture collection dedicated to polar and alpine microorganisms	POLAR BIOLOGY	Microorganisms in polar areas may have important ecological roles in biogeochemical cycles and the food chain. They are adapted to polar environments by means of special physiological adaptation mechanisms that include cold-adapted enzymes and cryoprotectants such as exopolysaccharides. Culture collections for polar microorganisms can provide research resources for ecological and physiological studies. The Polar and Alpine Microbial Collection (PAMC) is a specialized culture collection for maintenance and distribution of polar and alpine microorganisms. A database system was developed to share important data fields with DarwinCore2 and Ocean Biogeographic Information System database schemas. Approximately 1,500 out of 5,500 strains maintained in PAMC have been identified and belonged primarily to the phyla Actinobacteria, Bacteroidetes, Firmicutes, and Proteobacteria. Many of the microbial strains can grow at low temperature and produce proteases, lipases, and/or exopolysaccharides. PAMC provides search tools based on keywords such as taxonomy, geographical origin, habitat, and physiological characteristics. Biological materials and information provided by PAMC will be important resources for ecological and physiological studies on polar and alpine microorganisms.	2012	10.1007/s00300-012-1182-7
Temkiv, TS; Finster, K; Hansen, BM; Nielsen, NW; Karlson, UG	The microbial diversity of a storm cloud as assessed by hailstones	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Being an extreme environment, the atmosphere may act as a selective barrier for bacterial dispersal, where only most robust organisms survive. By remaining viable during atmospheric transport, these cells affect the patterns of microbial distribution and modify the chemical composition of the atmosphere. The species evenness and richness, and the community composition of a storm cloud were studied applying cultivation-dependent and cultivation-independent techniques to a collection of hailstones. In toto 231 OTUs were identified, and the total species richness was estimated to be about 1800 OTUs. The diversity indices species richness and evenness suggest a functionally stable community, capable of resisting environmental stress. A broad substrate spectrum of the isolates with epiphytic origin (genus Methylobacterium) implied opportunistic ecologic strategy with high growth rates and fast growth responses. These may grow in situ despite their short residence times in cloud droplets. In addition, epiphytic isolates utilized many atmospheric organic compounds, including a variety of carboxylic acids. In summary, the highly diverse bacterial community, within which the opportunistic bacteria may be particularly important in terms of atmospheric chemistry, is likely to remain functional under stressful conditions. Overall our study adds important details to the growing evidence of active microbial life in clouds.	2012	10.1111/j.1574-6941.2012.01402.x
Passy, SI	A hierarchical theory of macroecology	ECOLOGY LETTERS	The relationships of local population density (N) with body size (M) and distribution (D) have been extensively studied because they reveal how ecological and historical factors structure species communities; however, a unifying model explaining their joint behaviour, has not been developed. Here, I propose a theory that explores these relationships hierarchically and predicts that: (1) at a metacommunity level, niche breadth, population density and regional distribution are all related and size-dependent and (2) at a community level, the exponents b and d of the relationships N similar to similar to similar to M similar to b and N similar to similar to similar to D similar to d are functions (f) of the environment and, consequently, species richness (S), allowing the following reformulation of the power laws: N similar to similar to similar to M similar to f(S) and N similar to similar to similar to D f(S) . Using this framework and continental data on stream environment, diatoms, invertebrates and fish, I address the following fundamental, but unresolved ecological questions: how do species partition their resources across environments, is energetic equivalence among them possible, are generalists more common than specialists, why are locally abundant species also regionally prevalent, and, do microbes have different biogeography than macroorganisms? The discovery that community scaling behaviour is environmentally constrained calls for better integration of macroecology and environmental science.	2012	10.1111/j.1461-0248.2012.01809.x
Singh, K; Singh, B; Singh, RR	Changes in physico-chemical, microbial and enzymatic activities during restoration of degraded sodic land: Ecological suitability of mixed forest over monoculture plantation	CATENA	Degraded sodic lands in north India are rehabilitated under agriculture and forest sector as per national policies. Afforestation on such lands with monoculture and mixed species reclaims the soils with different efficiencies. We studied the physico-chemical and microbial properties along with enzymatic activities of degraded sodic land (control), rehabilitated sodic lands planted under Terminalia arjuna (R-TA), Prosopis juliflora (R-PJ) and mixed forest (R-MF) from two depths (0-15 and 15-30 cm). The properties of rehabilitated land uses were compared with the soils of corresponding reference (standard) land use under Tectona grandis (Ref-TG) plantation and mixed forest (Ref-MF) growing in the natural forest range of same biogeographic region to determine the status of improvement. The objective of the study was to determine efficient ecological model for the restoration of degraded sodic land. The bulk density, pH, electrical conductivity (EC) and exchangeable sodium percentage (ESP) reduced during restoration under both, pure plantations as well as mixed forest. Increase in water holding capacity (WHC), organic carbon, soil nutrients, microbial biomass (MB) [carbon, nitrogen and phosphorus], microbial counts, CO2 flux and enzymatic activities (dehydrogenase, beta-glucosidase, protease and acidic phosphatase) showed significant improvement in the soil quality of rehabilitated sites. At 0-15 cm soil depth in rehabilitated and reference land uses, in comparison to D-SL, organic carbon, nitrogen (total and available), available phosphorus, exchangeable cations (Na+, Ca++ and Mg++), MB (carbon and nitrogen) and activities of all enzymes, except alkaline phosphatase, were significantly greater, while other soil properties showed land use specific trends. The overall gain percent in physico-chemical soil properties varied from 54% under plantations to 77% under mixed forest (R-MF). Corresponding gain in microbial biomass was 21% (R-TA) and 34% (R-PJ) under plantation soils against 90% in mixed forest soil. The enzyme activities (on average) have also attained maximum gain% under R-MF (77%) followed by R-PJ (47%) and R-TA (35%) in decreasing order which indicates that afforestation with multiple tree species is a relatively good option for sustainable rehabilitation of sodic lands. (C) 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2012	10.1016/j.catena.2012.04.007
Pommier, T; Douzery, EJP; Mouillot, D	Environment drives high phylogenetic turnover among oceanic bacterial communities	BIOLOGY LETTERS	Although environmental filtering has been observed to influence the biodiversity patterns of marine bacterial communities, it was restricted to the regional scale and to the species level, leaving the main drivers unknown at large biogeographic scales and higher taxonomic levels. Bacterial communities with different species compositions may nevertheless share phylogenetic lineages, and phylogenetic turnover (PT) among those communities may be surprisingly low along any biogeographic or environmental gradient. Here, we investigated the relative influence of environmental filtering and geographical distance on the PT between marine bacterial communities living more than 8000 km apart in contrasted abiotic conditions. PT was high between communities and was more structured by local environmental factors than by geographical distance, suggesting the predominance of a lineage filtering process. Strong phenotype-environment mismatches observed in the ocean may surpass high connectivity between marine microbial communities.	2012	10.1098/rsbl.2011.0990
Zimmerman, NB; Vitousek, PM	Fungal endophyte communities reflect environmental structuring across a Hawaiian landscape	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	We surveyed endophytic fungal communities in leaves of a single tree species (Metrosideros polymorpha) across wide environmental gradients (500-5,500 mm of rain/y; 10-22 degrees C mean annual temperature) spanning short geographic distances on Mauna Loa Volcano, Hawaii. Using barcoded amplicon pyrosequencing at 13 sites (10 trees/site; 10 leaves/tree), we found very high levels of diversity within sites (a mean of 551 +/- 134 taxonomic units per site). However, among-site diversity contributed even more than did within-site diversity to the overall richness of more than 4,200 taxonomic units observed in M. polymorpha, and this among-site variation in endophyte community composition correlated strongly with temperature and rainfall. These results are consistent with suggestions that foliar endophytic fungi are hyperdiverse. They further suggest that microbial diversity may be even greater than has been assumed and that broad-scale environmental controls such as temperature and rainfall can structure eukaryotic microbial diversity. Appropriately constrained study systems across strong environmental gradients present a useful means to understand the environmental factors that structure the diversity of microbial communities.	2012	10.1073/pnas.1209872109
Valentin-Vargas, A; Toro-Labrador, G; Massol-Deya, AA	Bacterial Community Dynamics in Full-Scale Activated Sludge Bioreactors: Operational and Ecological Factors Driving Community Assembly and Performance	PLOS ONE	The assembling of bacterial communities in conventional activated sludge (CAS) bioreactors was thought, until recently, to be chaotic and mostly unpredictable. Studies done over the last decade have shown that specific, and often, predictable random and non-random factors could be responsible for that process. These studies have also motivated a structure-function paradigm that is yet to be resolved. Thus, elucidating the factors that affect community assembly in the bioreactors is necessary for predicting fluctuations in community structure and function. For this study activated sludge samples were collected during a one-year period from two geographically distant CAS bioreactors of different size. Combining community fingerprinting analysis and operational parameters data with a robust statistical analysis, we aimed to identify relevant links between system performance and bacterial community diversity and dynamics. In addition to revealing a significant beta-diversity between the bioreactors communities, results showed that the largest bioreactor had a less dynamic but more efficient and diverse bacterial community throughout the study. The statistical analysis also suggests that deterministic factors, as opposed to stochastic factors, may have a bigger impact on the community structure in the largest bioreactor. Furthermore, the community seems to rely mainly on mechanisms of resistance and functional redundancy to maintain functional stability. We suggest that the ecological theories behind the Island Biogeography model and the species-area relationship were appropriate to predict the assembly of bacterial communities in these CAS bioreactors. These results are of great importance for engineers and ecologists as they reveal critical aspects of CAS systems that could be applied towards improving bioreactor design and operation.	2012	10.1371/journal.pone.0042524
Lennon, JT; Aanderud, ZT; Lehmkuhl, BK; Schoolmaster, DR	Mapping the niche space of soil microorganisms using taxonomy and traits	ECOLOGY	The biodiversity of microbial communities has important implications for the stability and functioning of ecosystem processes. Yet, very little is known about the environmental factors that define the microbial niche and how this influences the composition and activity of microbial communities. In this study, we derived niche parameters from physiological response curves that quantified microbial respiration for a diverse collection of soil bacteria and fungi along a soil moisture gradient. On average, soil microorganisms had relatively dry optima (0.3 MPa) and were capable of respiring under low water potentials (-2.0 MPa). Within their limits of activity, microorganisms exhibited a wide range of responses, suggesting that some taxa may be able to coexist by partitioning the moisture niche axis. For example, we identified dry-adapted generalists that tolerated a broad range of water potentials, along with wet-adapted specialists with metabolism restricted to less-negative water potentials. These contrasting ecological strategies had a phylogenetic signal at a coarse taxonomic level (phylum), suggesting that the moisture niche of soil microorganisms is highly conserved. In addition, variation in microbial responses along the moisture gradient was linked to the distribution of several functional traits. In particular, strains that were capable of producing biofilms had drier moisture optima and wider niche breadths. However, biofilm production appeared to come at a cost that was reflected in a prolonged lag time prior to exponential growth, suggesting that there is a trade-off associated with traits that allow microorganisms to contend with moisture stress. Together, we have identified functional groups of microorganisms that will help predict the structure and functioning of microbial communities under contrasting soil moisture regimes.	2012	
Koppell, JH; Parker, MA	Phylogenetic clustering of Bradyrhizobium symbionts on legumes indigenous to North America	MICROBIOLOGY-SGM	To analyse determinants of biogeographic structure in members of the genus Bradyrhizobium, isolates were obtained from 41 legume genera, originating from North American sites spanning 48.5 degrees of latitude (Alaska to Panama). Sequencing of portions of six gene loci (3674 bp) in 203 isolates showed that there was only a weak trend towards higher nucleotide diversity in tropical regions. Phylogenetic relationships for nifD, in the symbiosis island region of the Bradyrhizobium chromosome, conflicted substantially with a tree inferred for five housekeeping gene loci. For both nifD and housekeeping gene trees, bacteria from each region were significantly more similar, on average, than would be expected if the source location was permuted at random on the tree. Within-region permutation tests also showed that bacteria clustered significantly on particular host plant clades at all levels in the phylogeny of legumes (from genus up to subfamily). Nevertheless, some bacterial groups were dispersed across multiple regions and were associated with diverse legume host lineages. These results indicate that migration, horizontal gene transfer and host interactions have all influenced the geographical divergence of Bradyrhizobium populations on a continental scale.	2012	10.1099/mic.0.059238-0
Peay, KG; Schubert, MG; Nguyen, NH; Bruns, TD	Measuring ectomycorrhizal fungal dispersal: macroecological patterns driven by microscopic propagules	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	Dispersal plays a prominent role in most conceptual models of community assembly. However, direct measurement of dispersal across a whole community is difficult at ecologically relevant spatial scales. For cryptic organisms, such as fungi and bacteria, the scale and importance of dispersal limitation has become a major point of debate. We use an experimental island biogeographic approach to measure the effects of dispersal limitation on the ecological dynamics of an important group of plant symbionts, ectomycorrhizal fungi. We manipulated the isolation of uncolonized host seedlings across a natural landscape and used a range of molecular techniques to measure the dispersal rates of ectomycorrhizal propagules and host colonization. Some species were prolific dispersers, producing annual spore loads on the order of trillions of spores per km2. However, fungal propagules reaching host seedlings decreased rapidly with increasing distance from potential spore sources, causing a concomitant reduction in ectomycorrhizal species richness, host colonization and host biomass. There were also strong differences in dispersal ability across species, which correlated well with the predictable composition of ectomycorrhizal communities associated with establishing pine forest. The use of molecular tools to measure whole community dispersal provides a direct confirmation for a key mechanism underlying island biogeography theory and has the potential to make microbial systems a model for understanding the role of dispersal in ecological theory.	2012	10.1111/j.1365-294X.2012.05666.x
Kembel, SW; Jones, E; Kline, J; Northcutt, D; Stenson, J; Womack, AM; Bohannan, BJM; Brown, GZ; Green, JL	Architectural design influences the diversity and structure of the built environment microbiome	ISME JOURNAL	Buildings are complex ecosystems that house trillions of microorganisms interacting with each other, with humans and with their environment. Understanding the ecological and evolutionary processes that determine the diversity and composition of the built environment microbiome-the community of microorganisms that live indoors-is important for understanding the relationship between building design, biodiversity and human health. In this study, we used high-throughput sequencing of the bacterial 16S rRNA gene to quantify relationships between building attributes and airborne bacterial communities at a health-care facility. We quantified airborne bacterial community structure and environmental conditions in patient rooms exposed to mechanical or window ventilation and in outdoor air. The phylogenetic diversity of airborne bacterial communities was lower indoors than outdoors, and mechanically ventilated rooms contained less diverse microbial communities than did window-ventilated rooms. Bacterial communities in indoor environments contained many taxa that are absent or rare outdoors, including taxa closely related to potential human pathogens. Building attributes, specifically the source of ventilation air, airflow rates, relative humidity and temperature, were correlated with the diversity and composition of indoor bacterial communities. The relative abundance of bacteria closely related to human pathogens was higher indoors than outdoors, and higher in rooms with lower airflow rates and lower relative humidity. The observed relationship between building design and airborne bacterial diversity suggests that we can manage indoor environments, altering through building design and operation the community of microbial species that potentially colonize the human microbiome during our time indoors. The ISME Journal (2012) 6, 1469-1479; doi: 10.1038/ismej.2011.211; published online 26 January 2012	2012	10.1038/ismej.2011.211
Freitas, S; Hatosy, S; Fuhrman, JA; Huse, SM; Welch, DBM; Sogin, ML; Martiny, AC	Global distribution and diversity of marine Verrucomicrobia	ISME JOURNAL	Verrucomicrobia is a bacterial phylum that is commonly detected in soil, but little is known about the distribution and diversity of this phylum in the marine environment. To address this, we analyzed the marine microbial community composition in 506 samples from the International Census of Marine Microbes as well as 11 coastal samples taken from the California Current. These samples from both the water column and sediments covered a wide range of environmental conditions. Verrucomicrobia were present in 98% of the analyzed samples, and thus appeared nearly ubiquitous in the ocean. Based on the occurrence of amplified 16S ribosomal RNA sequences, Verrucomicrobia constituted on average 2% of the water column and 1.4% of the sediment bacterial communities. The diversity of Verrucomicrobia displayed a biogeography at multiple taxonomic levels and thus, specific lineages appeared to have clear habitat preference. We found that subdivision 1 and 4 generally dominated marine bacterial communities, whereas subdivision 2 was more frequent in low salinity waters. Within the subdivisions, Verrucomicrobia community composition were significantly different in the water column compared with sediment as well as within the water column along gradients of salinity, temperature, nitrate, depth and overall water column depth. Although we still know little about the ecophysiology of Verrucomicrobia lineages, the ubiquity of this phylum suggests that it may be important for the biogeochemical cycle of carbon in the ocean. The ISME Journal (2012) 6, 1499-1505; doi:10.1038/ismej.2012.3; published online 9 February 2012	2012	10.1038/ismej.2012.3
Aguilar, M; Lado, C	Ecological niche models reveal the importance of climate variability for the biogeography of protosteloid amoebae	ISME JOURNAL	Habitat availability and environmental preferences of species are among the most important factors in determining the success of dispersal processes and therefore in shaping the distribution of protists. We explored the differences in fundamental niches and potential distributions of an ecological guild of slime moulds-protosteloid amoebae-in the Iberian Peninsula. A large set of samples collected in a north-east to south-west transect of approximately 1000 km along the peninsula was used to test the hypothesis that, together with the existence of suitable microhabitats, climate conditions may determine the probability of survival of species. Although protosteloid amoebae share similar morphologies and life history strategies, canonical correspondence analyses showed that they have varied ecological optima, and that climate conditions have an important effect in niche differentiation. Maxent environmental niche models provided consistent predictions of the probability of presence of the species based on climate data, and they were used to generate maps of potential distribution in an everything is everywhere scenario. The most important climatic factors were, in both analyses, variables that measure changes in conditions throughout the year, confirming that the alternation of fruiting bodies, cysts and amoeboid stages in the life cycles of protosteloid amoebae constitutes an advantage for surviving in a changing environment. Microhabitat affinity seems to be influenced by climatic conditions, which suggests that the micro-environment may vary at a local scale and change together with the external climate at a larger scale. The ISME Journal (2012) 6, 1506-1514; doi:10.1038/ismej.2012.12; published online 8 March 2012	2012	10.1038/ismej.2012.12
Mao, D; Grogan, D	Genomic evidence of rapid, global-scale gene flow in a Sulfolobus species	ISME JOURNAL	Local populations of Sulfolobus islandicus diverge genetically with geographical separation, and this has been attributed to restricted transfer of propagules imposed by the unfavorable spatial distribution of acidic geothermal habitat. We tested the generality of genetic divergence with distance in Sulfolobus species by analyzing genomes of Sulfolobus acidocaldarius drawn from three populations separated by more than 8000 km. In sharp contrast to S. islandicus, the geographically diverse S. acidocaldarius genomes proved to be nearly identical. We could not link the difference in genome conservation between the two species to a corresponding difference in genome stability or ecological factors affecting propagule dispersal. The results provide the first evidence that genetic isolation of local populations does not result primarily from properties intrinsic to Sulfolobus and the severe discontinuity of its geothermal habitat, but varies with species, and thus may reflect biotic interactions that act after propagule dispersal. The ISME Journal (2012) 6, 1613-1616; doi:10.1038/ismej.2012.20; published online 15 March 2012	2012	10.1038/ismej.2012.20
Ragon, M; Fontaine, MC; Moreira, D; Lopez-Garcia, P	Different biogeographic patterns of prokaryotes and microbial eukaryotes in epilithic biofilms	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	Microbial biogeography studies expend much effort in determining whether environmental selection or stochastic processes related to dispersal are more important in shaping community composition. While both types of factors are possibly influential, it is tacitly assumed that protists, or microbial eukaryotes in general, behave biogeographically as prokaryotes because of their small physical size. However, direct evidence for this in exactly the same environment and at the same phylogenetic depth is lacking. In this study, we compared the structure of both prokaryotic and eukaryotic components of microbial communities forming biofilms on mineral substrates in different geographic locations at the level of small-subunit (SSU) rRNA-based operational taxonomic units (OTUs). These microbial communities are subjected to strong environmental selection and contain significant proportions of extremophilic microorganisms adapted to desiccation and UV radiation. We find that the nature of the substrate as well as climatic variables and geography influences microbial community structure. However, constrained correspondence analyses and distancedecay curves showed that, whereas the substrate type was the most significant factor structuring bacterial communities, geographic location was the most influential factor for microbial eukaryote communities. Biological explanations implying a higher dispersal success for bacteria combined with more mobile lifestyles for predatory protists may underlie these different prokaryote versus microbial eukaryote biogeographic patterns.	2012	10.1111/j.1365-294X.2012.05659.x
Tripathi, BM; Kim, M; Singh, D; Lee-Cruz, L; Lai-Hoe, A; Ainuddin, AN; Go, R; Rahim, RA; Husni, MHA; Chun, J; Adams, JM	Tropical Soil Bacterial Communities in Malaysia: pH Dominates in the Equatorial Tropics Too	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	The dominant factors controlling soil bacterial community variation within the tropics are poorly known. We sampled soils across a range of land use types-primary (unlogged) and logged forests and crop and pasture lands in Malaysia. PCR-amplified soil DNA for the bacterial 16S rRNA gene targeting the V1-V3 region was pyrosequenced using the 454 Roche machine. We found that land use in itself has a weak but significant effect on the bacterial community composition. However, bacterial community composition and diversity was strongly correlated with soil properties, especially soil pH, total carbon, and C/N ratio. Soil pH was the best predictor of bacterial community composition and diversity across the various land use types, with the highest diversity close to neutral pH values. In addition, variation in phylogenetic structure of dominant lineages (Alphaproteobacteria, Beta/Gammaproteobacteria, Acidobacteria, and Actinobacteria) is also significantly correlated with soil pH. Together, these results confirm the importance of soil pH in structuring soil bacterial communities in Southeast Asia. Our results also suggest that unlike the general diversity pattern found for larger organisms, primary tropical forest is no richer in operational taxonomic units of soil bacteria than logged forest, and agricultural land (crop and pasture) is actually richer than primary forest, partly due to selection of more fertile soils that have higher pH for agriculture and the effects of soil liming raising pH.	2012	10.1007/s00248-012-0028-8
van der Heijden, K; Petersen, JM; Dubilier, N; Borowski, C	Genetic Connectivity between North and South Mid-Atlantic Ridge Chemosynthetic Bivalves and Their Symbionts	PLOS ONE	Transform faults are geological structures that interrupt the continuity of mid-ocean ridges and can act as dispersal barriers for hydrothermal vent organisms. In the equatorial Atlantic Ocean, it has been hypothesized that long transform faults impede gene flow between the northern and the southern Mid-Atlantic Ridge (MAR) and disconnect a northern from a southern biogeographic province. To test if there is a barrier effect in the equatorial Atlantic, we examined phylogenetic relationships of chemosynthetic bivalves and their bacterial symbionts from the recently discovered southern MAR hydrothermal vents at 5 degrees S and 9 degrees S. We examined Bathymodiolus spp. mussels and Abyssogena southwardae clams using the mitochondrial cytochrome c oxidase subunit I (COI) gene as a phylogenetic marker for the hosts and the bacterial 16S rRNA gene as a marker for the symbionts. Bathymodiolus spp. from the two southern sites were genetically divergent from the northern MAR species B. azoricus and B. puteoserpentis but all four host lineages form a monophyletic group indicating that they radiated after divergence from their northern Atlantic sister group, the B. boomerang species complex. This suggests dispersal of Bathymodiolus species from north to south across the equatorial belt. 16S rRNA genealogies of chemoautotrophic and methanotrophic symbionts of Bathymodiolus spp. were inconsistent and did not match the host COI genealogy indicating disconnected biogeography patterns. The vesicomyid clam Abyssogena southwardae from 5 degrees S shared an identical COI haplotype with A. southwardae from the Logatchev vent field on the northern MAR and their symbionts shared identical 16S phylotypes, suggesting gene flow across the Equator. Our results indicate genetic connectivity between the northern and southern MAR and suggest that a strict dispersal barrier does not exist.	2012	10.1371/journal.pone.0039994
Moreno-Letelier, A; Olmedo-Alvarez, G; Eguiarte, LE; Souza, V	Divergence and Phylogeny of Firmicutes from the Cuatro Cienegas Basin, Mexico: A Window to an Ancient Ocean	ASTROBIOLOGY	The Cuatro Cienegas Basin (CCB) has been identified as a center of endemism for many life-forms. Nearly half the bacterial species found in the spring systems have their closest relatives in the ocean. This raises the question of whether the high diversity observed today is the product of an adaptive radiation similar to that of the Galapagos Islands or whether the bacterial groups are survivors of an ancient sea, which would be of interest for astrobiology. To help answer this question, we focused on Firmicutes from Cuatro Cienegas (mainly Bacillus and Exiguobacterium). We reconstructed the phylogenetic relationships of Firmicutes with 28 housekeeping genes and dated the resulting tree using geological events as calibration points. Our results show that marine Bacillus diverged from other Bacillus strains 838 Ma, while Bacillus from Cuatro Cienegas have divergence dates that range from 770 to 202 Ma. The members of Exiguobacterium from the CCB conform to a much younger group that diverged from the Andes strain 60 Ma and from the one in Yellowstone 183 Ma. Therefore, the diversity of Firmicutes in Cuatro Cienegas is not the product of a recent radiation but the product of the isolation of lineages from an ancient ocean. Hence, Cuatro Cienegas is not a Galapagos Archipelago for bacteria but is more like an astrobiological time machine in which bacterial lineages survived in an oligotrophic environment that may be very similar to that of the Precambrian.	2012	10.1089/ast.2011.0685
Brown, MV; Lauro, FM; DeMaere, MZ; Muir, L; Wilkins, D; Thomas, T; Riddle, MJ; Fuhrman, JA; Andrews-Pfannkoch, C; Hoffman, JM; McQuaid, JB; Allen, A; Rintoul, SR; Cavicchioli, R	Global biogeography of SAR11 marine bacteria	MOLECULAR SYSTEMS BIOLOGY	The ubiquitous SAR11 bacterial clade is the most abundant type of organism in the worlds oceans, but the reasons for its success are not fully elucidated. We analysed 128 surface marine metagenomes, including 37 new Antarctic metagenomes. The large size of the data set enabled internal transcribed spacer (ITS) regions to be obtained from the Southern polar region, enabling the first global characterization of the distribution of SAR11, from waters spanning temperatures - 2 to 30 degrees C. Our data show a stable co-occurrence of phylotypes within both tropical (>20 degrees C) and polar (<10 degrees C) biomes, highlighting ecological niche differentiation between major SAR11 subgroups. All phylotypes display transitions in abundance that are strongly correlated with temperature and latitude. By assembling SAR11 genomes from Antarctic metagenome data, we identified specific genes, biases in gene functions and signatures of positive selection in the genomes of the polar SAR11-genomic signatures of adaptive radiation. Our data demonstrate the importance of adaptive radiation in the organisms ability to proliferate throughout the worlds oceans, and describe genomic traits characteristic of different phylotypes in specific marine biomes. Molecular Systems Biology 8: 595; published online 17 July 2012; doi:10.1038/msb.2012.28 Subject Categories: cellular metabolism; microbiology & pathogens	2012	10.1038/msb.2012.28
Rout, ME; Callaway, RM	Interactions between exotic invasive plants and soil microbes in the rhizosphere suggest that oeverything is not everywhere	ANNALS OF BOTANY	The study of soil biota in the context of exotic plant invasions has led to an explosion in our understanding of the ecological roles of many different groups of microbes that function in roots or at the rootsoil interface. Part of this progress has been the emergence of two biogeographic patterns involving invasive plants and soil microbes. First, in their non-native ranges invasive plants commonly interact differently with the same soil microbes than native plants. Second, in their native ranges, plants that are invasive elsewhere commonly interact functionally with soil microbes differently in their home ranges than they do in their non-native ranges. These studies pose a challenge to a long-held paradigm about microbial biogeography the idea that microbes are not limited by dispersal and are thus free from the basic taxonomic, biogeographical and evolutionary framework that characterizes all other life on Earth. As an analogy, the global distribution of animals that function as carnivores does not negate the fascinating evolutionary biogeographic patterns of carnivores. Other challenges to this notion come from new measurements of genetic differences among microbes across geographic boundaries, which also suggest that meaningful biogeographic patterns exist for microorganisms. We expand this discussion of whether or not oeverything is everywhere by using the inherently biogeographic context of plant invasions by reviewing the literature on interactions among invasive plants and the microorganisms in the rhizosphere. We find that these interactions can be delineated at multiple scales: from individual plants to continents. Thus the microbes that regulate major aspects of plant biology do not appear to be exempt from the fundamental evolutionary processes of geographical isolation and natural selection. At the important scales of taxonomy, ecotype and ecosystem functions, the fundamental ecology of invaders and soil microbes indicates that everything might not be everywhere.	2012	10.1093/aob/mcs061
Valverde, A; Tuffin, M; Cowan, DA	Biogeography of bacterial communities in hot springs: a focus on the actinobacteria	EXTREMOPHILES	Actinobacteria are ubiquitous in soil, freshwater and marine ecosystems. Although various studies have focused on the microbial ecology of this phylum, data are scant on the ecology of actinobacteria endemic to hot springs. Here, we have investigated the molecular diversity of eubacteria, with specific focus on the actinobacteria in hot springs in Zambia, China, New Zealand and Kenya. Temperature and pH values at sampling sites ranged between 44.5 and 86.5 A degrees C and 5-10, respectively. Non-metric multidimensional scaling analysis of 16S rRNA gene T-RFLP patterns showed that samples could be separated by geographical location. Multivariate analysis showed that actinobacterial community composition was best predicted by changes in pH and temperature, whereas temperature alone was the most important variable explaining differences in bacterial community structure. Using 16S rRNA gene libraries, 28 major actinobacterial OTUs were found. Both molecular techniques indicated that many of the actinobacterial phylotypes were unique and exclusive to the respective sample. Collectively, these results support the view that both actinobacterial diversity and endemism are high in hot spring ecosystems.	2012	10.1007/s00792-012-0465-9
Hepp, LU; Fornel, R; Restello, RM; Trevisan, A; Santos, S	INTRASPECIFIC MORPHOLOGICAL VARIATION IN A FRESHWATER CRUSTACEAN AEGLA PLANA IN SOUTHERN BRAZIL: EFFECTS OF GEOGRAPHICAL ISOLATION ON CARAPACE SHAPE	JOURNAL OF CRUSTACEAN BIOLOGY	Freshwater ecosystems are characterized by a high spatial complexity. This heterogeneity affects the distribution of aquatic organisms in riverine landscapes. Morphological variation in natural populations is driven by evolutionary forces. In crustaceans, morphological variations have been observed between different basins, environments, or developmental sequences along their geographical distribution. In this study, we assessed the possible effects of spatial scale on the phenotype of Aegla piano Buckup and Rossi, 1977 using geometric morphometrics. We examined 110 adult specimens from three river basins in southern Brazil. We used 13 morphological landmarks for the dorsal view of the carapace; the coordinates were superimposed using a generalized Procrustean analysis. We used a multivariate analysis to test the morphological variation in crabs from different basins, and we employed the Mantel test to assess the relationship of spatial and environmental factors with the principal components matrix for the carapace shape. Populations from different river basins differed significantly in carapace centroid size. Carapace shapes also differed significantly among the river-basin populations, and the interaction between sex and populations was also significant. The environmental and geographical matrices were correlated with the carapace shape matrix. This morphological variation shows an association with the geographical distribution of microbasins, which suggests a biogeographical effect on the distribution of A. plana.	2012	10.1163/193724012X630660
Thaler, M; Lovejoy, C	Distribution and Diversity of a Protist Predator Cryothecomonas (Cercozoa) in Arctic Marine Waters	JOURNAL OF EUKARYOTIC MICROBIOLOGY	Heterotrophic nanoflagellates (HNFs) are key components in microbial food webs, potentially influencing community composition via top-down control of their favored prey or host. Marine cercozoan Cryothecomonas species are parasitoid and predatory HNFs that have been reported from ice, sediments, and the water column. Although Cryothecomonas is frequently reported from Arctic and subarctic seas, factors determining its occurrence are not known. We investigated the temporal and geographic distribution of Cryothecomonas in Canadian Arctic seas during the summer and autumn periods from 2006 to 2010. We developed a Cryothecomonas-specific fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) probe targeting ribosomal 18S rRNA to estimate cell concentrations in natural and manipulated samples. Comparison of simple and partial correlation coefficients showed that salinity, depth, and overall community biomass are important factors determining Cryothecomonas abundance. We found no evidence of parasitism in our samples. Hybridized cells included individuals smaller than any formally described Cryothecomonas, suggesting the presence of novel taxa or unknown life stages in this genus. A positive relationship between Cryothecomonas abundance and ice and meltwater suggests that it is a sensitive indicator of ice melt in Arctic water columns.	2012	10.1111/j.1550-7408.2012.00631.x
Rengefors, K; Logares, R; Laybourn-Parry, J	Polar lakes may act as ecological islands to aquatic protists	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	A fundamental question in ecology is whether microorganisms follow the same patterns as multicellular organisms when it comes to population structure and levels of genetic diversity. Enormous population sizes, predominately asexual reproduction and presumably high dispersal because of small body size could have profound implications on their genetic diversity and population structure. Here, we have analysed the population genetic structure in a lake-dwelling microbial eukaryote (dinoflagellate) and tested the hypothesis that there is population genetic differentiation among nearby lake subpopulations. This dinoflagellate occurs in the marine-derived saline lakes of the Vestfold Hills, Antarctica, which are ice-covered most of the year. Clonal strains were isolated from four different lakes and were genotyped using amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP). Our results show high genetic differentiation among lake populations despite their close geographic proximity (<9 km). Moreover, genotype diversity was high within populations. Gene flow in this system is clearly limited, either because of physical or biological barriers. Our results discard the null hypothesis that there is free gene flow among protist lake populations. Instead, limnetic protist populations may differentiate genetically, and lakes act as ecological islands even on the microbial scale.	2012	10.1111/j.1365-294X.2012.05596.x
Gayevskiy, V; Goddard, MR	Geographic delineations of yeast communities and populations associated with vines and wines in New Zealand	ISME JOURNAL	Yeasts are a diverse seemingly ubiquitous group of eukaryotic microbes, and many are naturally associated with fruits. Humans have harnessed yeasts since the dawn of civilisation to make wine, and thus it is surprising that we know little of the distribution of yeast communities naturally associated with fruits. Previous reports of yeast community diversity have been descriptive only. Here we present, we believe, the first robust test for the geographic delineation of yeast communities. Humans have relatively recently employed Saccharomyces cerevisiae as a model research organism, and have long harnessed its ancient adaption to ferment even in the presence of oxygen. However, as far as we are aware, there has not been a rigorous test for the presence of regional differences in natural S. cerevisiae populations before. We combined these community-and population-level questions and surveyed replicate vineyards and corresponding spontaneous ferments from different regions on New Zealands (NZs) North Island and analysed the resulting data with community ecology and population genetic tests. We show that there are distinct regional delineations of yeast communities, but the picture for S. cerevisiae is more complex: there is evidence for region-specific sub-populations but there are also reasonable levels of gene flow among these regions in NZ. We believe this is the first demonstration of regional delineations of yeast populations and communities worldwide. The ISME Journal (2012) 6, 1281-1290; doi:10.1038/ismej.2011.195; published online 22 December 2011	2012	10.1038/ismej.2011.195
Hanson, CA; Fuhrman, JA; Horner-Devine, MC; Martiny, JBH	Beyond biogeographic patterns: processes shaping the microbial landscape	NATURE REVIEWS MICROBIOLOGY	Recently, microbiologists have established the existence of biogeographic patterns among a wide range of microorganisms. The focus of the field is now shifting to identifying the mechanisms that shape these patterns. Here, we propose that four processes - selection, drift, dispersal and mutation - create and maintain microbial biogeographic patterns on inseparable ecological and evolutionary scales. We consider how the interplay of these processes affects one biogeographic pattern, the distance-decay relationship, and review evidence from the published literature for the processes driving this pattern in microorganisms. Given the limitations of inferring processes from biogeographic patterns, we suggest that studies should focus on directly testing the underlying processes.	2012	10.1038/nrmicro2795
De Bie, T; De Meester, L; Brendonck, L; Martens, K; Goddeeris, B; Ercken, D; Hampel, H; Denys, L; Vanhecke, L; Van der Gucht, K; Van Wichelen, J; Vyverman, W; Declerck, SAJ	Body size and dispersal mode as key traits determining metacommunity structure of aquatic organisms	ECOLOGY LETTERS	Relationships between traits of organisms and the structure of their metacommunities have so far mainly been explored with meta-analyses. We compared metacommunities of a wide variety of aquatic organism groups (12 groups, ranging from bacteria to fish) in the same set of 99 ponds to minimise biases inherent to meta-analyses. In the category of passive dispersers, large-bodied groups showed stronger spatial patterning than small-bodied groups suggesting an increasing impact of dispersal limitation with increasing body size. Metacommunities of organisms with the ability to fly (i.e. insect groups) showed a weaker imprint of dispersal limitation than passive dispersers with similar body size. In contrast, dispersal movements of vertebrate groups (fish and amphibians) seemed to be mainly confined to local connectivity patterns. Our results reveal that body size and dispersal mode are important drivers of metacommunity structure and these traits should therefore be considered when developing a predictive framework for metacommunity dynamics.	2012	10.1111/j.1461-0248.2012.01794.x
Chong, CW; Pearce, DA; Convey, P; Yew, WC; Tan, IKP	Patterns in the distribution of soil bacterial 16S rRNA gene sequences from different regions of Antarctica	GEODERMA	Since the advent of 16S rRNA gene-based molecular analysis, an increasing amount of work has been conducted on the Antarctic soil bacterial community. The majority of such studies suggest that the Antarctic soil environment may harbour a greater diversity of bacteria than was previously thought, and indeed that a proportion of the bacterial species found might be unique to the Antarctic. However, few have looked at the distribution of soil sequence types from different biogeographic regions of the continent. Here, we assess the taxonomic distribution of soil bacteria from different regions and latitudes in Antarctica by integrating 16S rRNA gene sequence information from 13 independent studies that, together, obtained samples from 35 locations ranging from 51 degrees S to 78 degrees S. The majority of these formed a transect across the continent, representing most of the ice-free regions of the Antarctic Peninsula and Scott Sector. Using detailed phylogenetic analysis, we found that most of the Antarctic soil environments contained a narrow range of bacterial species when compared to the overall number of sequences available. Further, patterns in the taxonomic distribution of Antarctic soil bacterial communities were significantly correlated to both the underlying soil parameters and geographic (regional) origins. (C) 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2012	10.1016/j.geoderma.2012.02.017
Yavitt, JB; Yashiro, E; Cadillo-Quiroz, H; Zinder, SH	Methanogen diversity and community composition in peatlands of the central to northern Appalachian Mountain region, North America	BIOGEOCHEMISTRY	Methanogenic archaea are ubiquitous in peat soils; however, their diversity and distributions within and among peatland ecosystems are not well known. We used comprehensive clone libraries of 16S rRNA gene sequences to investigate spatial patterns in diversity (richness, evenness of taxa) and composition (taxonomic, phylogenetic) of the methanogenic community in six peatlands arrayed 775 km from eastern Ontario, Canada to West Virginia, USA. Five sites were Sphagnum (moss) and shrub dominated; one site was sedge dominated; and, potential rates of methane (CH4) production ranged from 15 to 450 nmol/g day. The gradient allowed us to examine influences of site conditions, site history, and climate on community composition. The region had representatives of methanogens from four taxonomic orders. We observed 29 operationally defined units (OTUs) based on > 97% sequence identity. One OTU accounted for 43% of all clones, whereas 15 OTUs were rare with < 1% of the total number of clones. The number of OTUs per site ranged from 4 to 21, and statistical analysis suggested diversity of 4-43 per site. Eighteen of the OTUs were endemic to one site; albeit, most endemics occurred in the sedge dominated site. One OTU was cosmopolitan, occurring in all six sites. We found a positive relationship between methanogen diversity and rates of CH4 production per site (Pearson r = 0.93). Turnover in community composition between sites was weakly related to geographic distance between sites, whereas variation in soil pH and annual temperature played larger roles. About 50% of the variation in community composition was unexplained by distance, pH, mean climate, and site age. We conclude that methanogen diversity in peatlands of the central Appalachian region is shaped by present-day environmental conditions, suggesting an influence of impending climatic and environmental changes.	2012	10.1007/s10533-011-9644-5
Dvorak, P; Hasler, P; Poulickova, A	Phylogeography of the Microcoleus vaginatus (Cyanobacteria) from Three Continents - A Spatial and Temporal Characterization	PLOS ONE	It has long been assumed that cyanobacteria have, as with other free-living microorganisms, a ubiquitous occurrence. Neither the geographical dispersal barriers nor allopatric speciation has been taken into account. We endeavoured to examine the spatial and temporal patterns of global distribution within populations of the cyanobacterium Microcoleus vaginatus, originated from three continents, and to evaluate the role of dispersal barriers in the evolution of free-living cyanobacteria. Complex phylogeographical approach was applied to assess the dispersal and evolutionary patterns in the cyanobacterium Microcoleus vaginatus (Oscillatoriales). We compared the 16S rRNA and 16S-23S ITS sequences of strains which had originated from three continents (North America, Europe, and Asia). The spatial distribution was investigated using a phylogenetic tree, network, as well as principal coordinate analysis (PCoA). A temporal characterization was inferred using molecular clocks, calibrated from fossil DNA. Data analysis revealed broad genetic diversity within M. vaginatus. Based on the phylogenetic tree, network, and PCoA analysis, the strains isolated in Europe were spatially separated from those which originated from Asia and North America. A chronogram showed a temporal limitation of dispersal barriers on the continental scale. Dispersal barriers and allopatric speciation had an important role in the evolution of M. vaginatus. However, these dispersal barriers did not have a permanent character; therefore, the genetic flow among populations on a continental scale was only temporarily present. Furthermore, M. vaginatus is a recently evolved species, which has been going through substantial evolutionary changes.	2012	10.1371/journal.pone.0040153
Cencini, M; Pigolotti, S; Munoz, MA	What Ecological Factors Shape Species-Area Curves in Neutral Models?	PLOS ONE	Understanding factors that shape biodiversity and species coexistence across scales is of utmost importance in ecology, both theoretically and for conservation policies. Species-area relationships (SARs), measuring how the number of observed species increases upon enlarging the sampled area, constitute a convenient tool for quantifying the spatial structure of biodiversity. While general features of species-area curves are quite universal across ecosystems, some quantitative aspects can change significantly. Several attempts have been made to link these variations to ecological forces. Within the framework of spatially explicit neutral models, here we scrutinize the effect of varying the local population size (i.e. the number of individuals per site) and the level of habitat saturation (allowing for empty sites). We conclude that species-area curves become shallower when the local population size increases, while habitat saturation, unless strongly violated, plays a marginal role. Our findings provide a plausible explanation of why SARs for microorganisms are flatter than those for larger organisms.	2012	10.1371/journal.pone.0038232
Li, M; Li, Y; Chen, WF; Sui, XH; Li, Y; Li, Y; Wang, ET; Chen, WX	Genetic diversity, community structure and distribution of rhizobia in the root nodules of Caragana spp. from arid and semi-arid alkaline deserts, in the north of China	SYSTEMATIC AND APPLIED MICROBIOLOGY	The genetic diversity of 88 Caragana nodule rhizobial isolates, collected from arid and semi-arid alkaline sandy soils in the north of China, was assessed by PCR-RFLP of the 16S rRNA gene and the 16S-23S IGS, as well as the phylogenies of housekeeping genes (atpD, glnII and recA) and symbiotic genes (nodC and nifH). Of the 88 strains, 69 were placed in the genus Mesorhizobium, 16 in Rhizobium and 3 in Bradyrhizobium. Mesorhizobium amorphae, Mesorhizobium septentrionale, Mesorhizobium temperatum and Rhizobium yanglingense were the four predominant microsymbionts associated with Caragana spp. in the surveyed regions, and M. septentrionale was widely distributed among the sampling sites. Phylogenies of nodC and nifH genes showed that two kinds of symbiotic genes existed, corresponding to Mesorhizobium and Rhizobium, respectively. Available phosphorous (P) and potassium (K) contents were the main soil factors correlated with the distribution of these rhizobia in the sampling regions. Positive correlations between the available higher P content/lower K content and the dominance of Mesorhizobium species (M. temperatum, M. amorphae and M. septentrionale), and between the lower P content/higher K content and the dominance of R. yanglingense were found. (c) 2012 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.	2012	10.1016/j.syapm.2012.02.004
Zhang, CY; Whitaker, RJ	A broadly applicable gene knockout system for the thermoacidophilic archaeon Sulfolobus islandicus based on simvastatin selection	MICROBIOLOGY-SGM	Sulfolobus species have been developed as excellent model organisms to address fundamental questions of archaeal biology. Interesting patterns of natural variation among Sulfolobus islandicus strains have been identified through genome sequencing. Experimentally testing hypotheses about the biological causes and consequences of this natural variation requires genetic tools that apply to a diversity of strains. Previously, a genetic transformation system for S. islandicus was reported, in which overexpression of the 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase gene on the shuttle vector pSSR allowed the selection of transformants resistant to high concentrations of the thermostable antibiotic simvastatin. Here, we developed a novel gene knockout system based on simvastatin resistance. With this system, we created via homologous recombination an in-frame, markerless deletion of the intact S. islandicus M.16.4 pyrEF genes encoding orotidine-5-monophosphate pyrophosphorylase (OPRTase) and orotidine-5-monophosphate decarboxylase (OMPdecase), and a disruption of the lacS gene encoding beta-galactosidase. Phenotypic analyses of the mutants revealed that the pyrEF deletion mutant lost the ability to synthesize uracil, and the lacS deletion mutants exhibited a white colour after X-Gal staining, demonstrating that the beta-galactosidase function was inactivated. Our data demonstrate efficient tools to generate gene knockouts in a broad range of wild-type Sulfolobus strains.	2012	10.1099/mic.0.058289-0
Bell, SL; Allam, B; McElroy, A; Dove, A; Taylor, GT	INVESTIGATION OF EPIZOOTIC SHELL DISEASE IN AMERICAN LOBSTERS (HOMARUS AMERICANUS) FROM LONG ISLAND SOUND: I. CHARACTERIZATION OF ASSOCIATED MICROBIAL COMMUNITIES	JOURNAL OF SHELLFISH RESEARCH	Epizootic shell disease (ESD) is a degradative process of the carapace in the American lobster, (Homarus americanus), putatively caused by bacterial infection, and potentially responsible for serious economic losses to the lobster fishery. In Long Island Sound (LIS), ESD is prevalent in lobsters from eastern LIS (ELIS), but almost absent in western LIS (WLIS), presenting a unique opportunity to examine the influence of microbial communities on the disease process among these subpopulations. Bacterial community compositions in diseased shell, healthy shell subsamples from lobsters exhibiting signs of disease, and carapace subsamples of healthy lobsters from ELIS, WLIS, and a coastal Maine reference site were profiled using terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (TRFLP). Although overall bacterial community membership in diseased shell was not significantly different from healthy shell and healthy lobsters, prevalence of some individual terminal restriction fragments (TRFs) varied among disease state. Several TRFs were more abundant within lesions, whereas representation of other members appeared to be diminished, particularly members of the beta- and gamma-proteobacteria. One TRF linked to anaerobic bacteria was enriched in lesions, suggesting anoxic microenvironments within diseased tissues. Activities of 4 ectohydrolases among communities were also measured in replicate excised shell samples. Chitinase potentials were high in all samples, and were indistinguishable among sample types. In contrast, proteinase and cellulase potentials were significantly higher in diseased shell than healthy shell and healthy lobster. Lipase potentials in LIS samples were significantly higher than those from Maine, but similar among disease states. The absence of site-specific differences in microbial communities suggests that biogeographic variation in colonizing microbes is not a factor in disease susceptibility. Lesion development appears to induce compositional shifts in normal carapace microflora, with displacement of some community members as others become more prevalent. Protein and cellulose appear to be more important targets than chitin for bacterial degradation within lesions. Furthermore, lipase activity, degrading the epicuticle lipid layer, may play a key role in regions with high disease prevalence.	2012	10.2983/035.031.0207
Gonzalez, A; King, A; Robeson, MS; Song, SJ; Shade, A; Metcalf, JL; Knight, R	Characterizing microbial communities through space and time	CURRENT OPINION IN BIOTECHNOLOGY	Until recently, the study of microbial diversity has mainly been limited to descriptive approaches, rather than predictive model-based analyses. The development of advanced analytical tools and decreasing cost of high-throughput multi-omics technologies has made the later approach more feasible. However, consensus is lacking as to which spatial and temporal scales best facilitate understanding of the role of microbial diversity in determining both public and environmental health. Here, we review the potential for combining these new technologies with both traditional and nascent spatio-temporal analysis methods. The fusion of proper spatio-temporal sampling, combined with modern multi-omics and computational tools, will provide insight into the tracking, development and manipulation of microbial communities.	2012	10.1016/j.copbio.2011.11.017
Hong, JK; Cho, JC	High Level of Bacterial Diversity and Novel Taxa in Continental Shelf Sediment	JOURNAL OF MICROBIOLOGY AND BIOTECHNOLOGY	The bacterial diversity of the continental shelf sediment in the Yellow Sea was investigated by the cloning and sequencing of PCR-amplified 16S rRNA genes. The majority of the cloned sequences were distinct phylotypes that were novel at the species level. The richness estimator indicated that the sediment sample might harbor up to 32 phylum-level taxa. A large number of low-abundance, phylum-level taxa accounted for most of the observed phylogenetic diversity at our study site, suggesting that these low-abundance taxa might play crucial roles in the shelf sediment ecosystem.	2012	10.4014/jmb.1112.12004
Higgins, LM; Kennedy, PG	Symbiotic Frankia bacteria in Alnus forests in Mexico and the United States of America: is geographic location a good predictor of assemblage structure?	BOTANY-BOTANIQUE	While the biogeography of Alnus species is well characterized, that of their microbial symbionts remains less well understood. Little is known, for example, about how the genotypic richness of Alnus-associated Frankia bacteria varies at the continental scale, and the richness of Alnus-associated Frankia at tropical latitudes has yet to be explored. In this study, we conducted sequence-based analyses of the nifH gene comparing Frankia found in root nodules of two Alnus species in central Mexico with those associated with two Alnus species in the northwestern United States of America (USA). Similar to Frankia assemblages in northwestern USA and other geographic locations, genotypic richness within the Mexican samples was low, with five genotypes total using a >= 97% nifH sequence similarity cutoff. The vast majority of Mexican sequences belonged to genotypes also very common in northwestern USA Alnus forests, although two novel Mexican genotypes were identified. Phylogenetic analyses confirmed that all of the genotypes present in Mexico belong to larger clades of Alnus-associated Frankia. Genotype-and distance-based community analyses indicated that neither geographic location nor the phylogenetic relationships among hosts are strong predictors of Frankia assemblage structure. Our results suggest that factors other than classic biogeography are more influential in determining the continental-scale distribution and diversity of Alnus-associated Frankia.	2012	10.1139/B2012-006
Phillips, CD; Phelan, G; Dowd, SE; McDonough, MM; Ferguson, AW; Hanson, JD; Siles, L; Ordonez-Garza, N; San Francisco, M; Baker, RJ	Microbiome analysis among bats describes influences of host phylogeny, life history, physiology and geography	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	Metagenomic methods provide an experimental approach to inform the relationships between hosts and their microbial inhabitants. Previous studies have provided the conceptual realization that microbiomes are dynamic among hosts and the intimacy of relation between micro- and macroorganisms. Here, we present an intestinal microflora community analysis for members of the order Chiroptera and investigate the relative influence of variables in shaping observed microbiome relationships. The variables ranged from those considered to have ancient and long-term influences (host phylogeny and life history) to the relatively transient variable of host reproductive condition. In addition, collection locality data, representing the geographic variable, were included in analyses. Results indicate a complex influence of variables in shaping sample relationships in which signal for host phylogeny is recovered at broad taxonomic levels (family), whereas intrafamilial analyses disclosed various degrees of resolution for the remaining variables. Although cumulative probabilities of assignment indicated both reproductive condition and geography influenced relationships, comparison of ecological measures among groups revealed statistical differences between most variable classifications. For example, ranked ecological diversity was associated with host phylogeny (deeper coalescences among families were associated with more microfloral diversity), dietary strategy (herbivory generally retained higher diversity than carnivory) and reproductive condition (reproductively active females displayed more diverse microflora than nonreproductive conditions). Overall, the results of this study describe a complex process shaping microflora communities of wildlife species as well as provide avenues for future research that will further inform the nature of symbiosis between microflora communities and hosts.	2012	10.1111/j.1365-294X.2012.05568.x
Fernandez-Carazo, R; Namsaraev, Z; Mano, MJ; Ertz, D; Wilmotte, A	Cyanobacterial diversity for an anthropogenic impact assessment in the Sor Rondane Mountains area, Antarctica	ANTARCTIC SCIENCE	The recently inaugurated Belgian Princess Elisabeth Station has been built in the Sor Rondane Mountains (Dronning Maud Land). The construction site is situated close to the Utsteinen Nunatak (71 degrees 57S, 23 degrees 20E), on a granite ridge. Prior to the survey and construction activities, the site had been subject to limited or no direct human impacts. Therefore, a biological inventory has been started for future evaluations of human impacts in the area. This study presents the cyanobacterial diversity of ten samples from the Utsteinen ridge, the Utsteinen Nunatak in the vicinity of the stations site and the more distant Ketelersbreen Dry Valley. All samples were taken before the station was built and were studied by light microscopy and Denaturing Gradient Gel Electrophoresis. Two strains were also isolated. Two different phenol-based extraction methods, with and without detergent-based steps, were tested to improve the quality of molecular detection from these environmental samples. We observed high cyanobacterial diversity (ten morphotypes and 13 operational taxonomic units) in comparison to other Antarctic terrestrial locations and a widespread distribution pattern within the Sor Rondane Mountains area. This might reflect the habitat similarities and/or the easy local dispersal capabilities of microorganisms within the region. The high diversity and proportion of potential endemic (46%) operational taxonomic units, of which 23% were newly described, suggest that this area could have acted as a biological refuge during past glaciations.	2012	10.1017/S0954102011000824
Koid, A; Nelson, WC; Mraz, A; Heidelberg, KB	Comparative Analysis of Eukaryotic Marine Microbial Assemblages from 18S rRNA Gene and Gene Transcript Clone Libraries by Using Different Methods of Extraction	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Eukaryotic marine microbes play pivotal roles in biogeochemical nutrient cycling and ecosystem function, but studies that focus on the protistan biogeography and genetic diversity lag-behind studies of other microbes. 18S rRNA PCR amplification and clone library sequencing are commonly used to assess diversity that is culture independent. However, molecular methods are not without potential biases and artifacts. In this study, we compare the community composition of clone libraries generated from the same water sample collected at the San Pedro Ocean Time Series (SPOTs) station in the northwest Pacific Ocean. Community composition was assessed using different cell lysis methods (chemical and mechanical) and the extraction of different nucleic acids (DNA and RNA reverse transcribed to cDNA) to build Sanger ABI clone libraries. We describe specific biases for ecologically important phylogenetic groups resulting from differences in nucleic acid extraction methods that will inform future designs of eukaryotic diversity studies, regardless of the target sequencing platform planned.	2012	10.1128/AEM.06941-11
Logue, JB; Langenheder, S; Andersson, AF; Bertilsson, S; Drakare, S; Lanzen, A; Lindstrom, ES	Freshwater bacterioplankton richness in oligotrophic lakes depends on nutrient availability rather than on species-area relationships	ISME JOURNAL	A central goal in ecology is to grasp the mechanisms that underlie and maintain biodiversity and patterns in its spatial distribution can provide clues about those mechanisms. Here, we investigated what might determine the bacterioplankton richness (BR) in lakes by means of 454 pyrosequencing of the 16S rRNA gene. We further provide a BR estimate based upon a sampling depth and accuracy, which, to our knowledge, are unsurpassed for freshwater bacterioplankton communities. Our examination of 22 669 sequences per lake showed that freshwater BR in fourteen nutrient-poor lakes was positively influenced by nutrient availability. Our study is, thus, consistent with the finding that the supply of available nutrients is a major driver of species richness; a pattern that may well be universally valid to the world of both micro-and macro-organisms. We, furthermore, observed that BR increased with elevated landscape position, most likely as a consequence of differences in nutrient availability. Finally, BR decreased with increasing lake and catchment area that is negative species-area relationships (SARs) were recorded; a finding that re-opens the debate about whether positive SARs can indeed be found in the microbial world and whether positive SARs can in fact be pronounced as one of the few laws in ecology. The ISME Journal (2012) 6, 1127-1136; doi:10.1038/ismej.2011.184; published online 15 December 2011	2012	10.1038/ismej.2011.184
Brinkhoff, T; Fischer, D; Vollmers, J; Voget, S; Beardsley, C; Thole, S; Mussmann, M; Kunze, B; Wagner-Dobler, I; Daniel, R; Simon, M	Biogeography and phylogenetic diversity of a cluster of exclusively marine myxobacteria	ISME JOURNAL	Myxobacteria are common in terrestrial habitats and well known for their formation of fruiting bodies and production of secondary metabolites. We studied a cluster of myxobacteria consisting only of sequences of marine origin (marine myxobacteria cluster, MMC) in sediments of the North Sea. Using a specific PCR, MMC sequences were detected in North Sea sediments down to 2.2 m depth, but not in the limnetic section of the Weser estuary and other freshwater habitats. In the water column, this cluster was only detected on aggregates up to a few meters above the sediment surface, but never in the fraction of free-living bacteria. A quantitative real-time PCR approach revealed that the MMC constituted up to 13% of total bacterial 16S rRNA genes in surface sediments of the North Sea. In a global survey, including sediments from the Mediterranean Sea, the Atlantic, Pacific and Indian Ocean and various climatic regions, the MMC was detected in most samples and to a water depth of 4300 m. Two fosmids of a library from sediment of the southern North Sea containing 16S rRNA genes affiliated with the MMC were sequenced. Both fosmids have a single unlinked 16S rRNA gene and no complete rRNA operon as found in most bacteria. No synteny to other myxobacterial genomes was found. The highest numbers of orthologues for both fosmids were assigned to Sorangium cellulosum and Haliangium ochraceum. Our results show that the MMC is an important and widely distributed but largely unknown component of marine sediment-associated bacterial communities. The ISME Journal (2012) 6, 1260-1272; doi:10.1038/ismej.2011.190; published online 22 December 2011	2012	10.1038/ismej.2011.190
Chytry, M; Lososova, Z; Horsak, M; Uher, B; Cejka, T; Danihelka, J; Fajmon, K; Hajek, O; Jurickova, L; Kintrova, K; Lanikova, D; Otypkova, Z; Rehorek, V; Tichy, L	Dispersal limitation is stronger in communities of microorganisms than macroorganisms across Central European cities	JOURNAL OF BIOGEOGRAPHY	Aim It is generally believed that communities of small organisms, or those with small propagules, are structured mainly by local niche-based processes, and less by dispersal limitation. Conversely, weaker environmental and stronger spatial structure, indicating dispersal limitation, are expected to occur more frequently in communities of large organisms. However, this hypothesis has rarely been tested by comparing spatial and environmental effects across groups of organisms of different size (or with different size of propagules) sampled at the same set of sites. Here, we test it in urban environments. Location Thirty-two cities in 10 countries of Central Europe and Benelux. Methods We compared effects of spatial location and climate on species composition of different groups of organisms sampled in corresponding types of urban habitats. The studied groups were: (1) subaerial cyanobacteria and algae, (2) vascular plants, (3) land snails; and subgroups of vascular plants with different life form and dispersal mode, namely: (4) herbs, (5) animal-dispersed trees and shrubs, and (6) wind-dispersed trees and shrubs. Data were analysed by variation partitioning based on redundancy analysis (RDA) with principal coordinates of neighbour matrices (PCNM). Eighteen PCNM eigenvectors (expressing spatial effects) and mean annual temperature, JulyJanuary temperature difference and annual precipitation sum (expressing environmental effects) were used as explanatory variables. Results Pure effects of climate on species composition, indicating niche-based processes, were not significant for any group or subgroup of the studied organisms. In contrast, pure effects of space, indicating dispersal limitation, were significant for all groups and subgroups except herbs. Surprisingly, the community of cyanobacteria/algae possessed much stronger spatial structure independent of climate than communities of larger organisms, although cyanobacteria/algae had the lowest beta diversity among the studied cities. Main conclusions We hypothesize that the community of subaerial cyanobacteria/algae is structured by natural processes which involve dispersal limitation, whereas communities of urban plants and snails are influenced by human-assisted dispersal of their propagules between cities, which results in weaker dispersal limitation. Our study indicates that dispersal vectors can be more important for community structure than size of organisms or of their propagules.	2012	10.1111/j.1365-2699.2011.02664.x
Campos-Herrera, R; Barbercheck, M; Hoy, CW; Stock, SP	Entomopathogenic Nematodes as a Model System for Advancing the Frontiers of Ecology	JOURNAL OF NEMATOLOGY	Entomopathogenic nematodes (EPNs) in the families Heterorhabditidae and Steinernematidae have a mutualistic-symbiotic association with enteric gamma-Proteobacteria (Steinernema-Xenorhabdus and Heterorhabditis-Photorhabdus), which confer high virulence against insects. EPNs have been studied intensively because of their role as a natural mortality factor for soil-dwelling arthropods and their potential as biological control agents for belowground insect pests. For many decades, research on EPNs focused on the taxonomy, phylogeny, biogeography, genetics, physiology, biochemistry and ecology, as well as commercial production and application technologies. More recently, EPNs and their bacterial symbionts are being viewed as a model system for advancing research in other disciplines such as soil ecology, symbiosis and evolutionary biology. Integration of existing information, particularly the accumulating information on their biology, into increasingly detailed population models is critical to improving our ability to exploit and manage EPNs as a biological control agent and to understand ecological processes in a changing world. Here, we summarize some recent advances in phylogeny, systematics, biogeography, community ecology and population dynamics models of EPNs, and describe how this research is advancing frontiers in ecology.	2012	
Tsagkarakou, A; Mouton, L; Kristoffersen, JB; Dokianakis, E; Grispou, M; Bourtzis, K	Population genetic structure and secondary endosymbionts of Q Bemisia tabaci (Hemiptera: Aleyrodidae) from Greece	BULLETIN OF ENTOMOLOGICAL RESEARCH	We investigated the molecular diversity of the major agricultural pest Bemisia tabaci and of its associated secondary endosymbionts in Greece. Analyzing mitochondrial DNA, we found that the Q1 (=Q west) is predominant. We used eight microsatellite polymorphic markers to study the genetic structure of 37 populations from mainland and insular Greece, collected on different host species from outdoor and protected crops as well as from non-cultivated plants. In some cases, gene flow was found to be low even between populations separated by just a few kilometres. Bayesian analysis identified two main genetic groups, the first encompassing populations from south Crete and the second composed of populations from north Crete, two other Aegean islands and mainland Greece. Genetic differentiation was not correlated with different host plant species or habitat, or greenhouse versus open environment populations. Gene flow significantly decreased with geographic distance, but no isolation by distance existed when only the samples from mainland Greece or only the samples from Crete were considered. The secondary symbionts Wolbachia and Hamiltonella were present at high frequencies while Arsenophonus, Cardinium and Rickettsia were absent from Greek populations. Multilocus sequence typing of Wolbachia identified two Wolbachia strains. These two strains were found together in most of the populations studied but never in the same host individual. Their role on the observed population structure is discussed.	2012	10.1017/S0007485311000757
Andrus, AD; Andam, C; Parker, MA	American origin of Cupriavidus bacteria associated with invasive Mimosa legumes in the Philippines	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	To identify the origins of Cupriavidus nodule symbionts associated with two invasive Mimosa species in the Philippines, 22 isolates were sequenced for portions of three chromosomal genes and two symbiotic plasmid loci. Eleven isolates were identical at all gene loci (2713 similar to bp) to a lineage found in Central America. Four other Philippine isolates were identical to a second Cupriavidus lineage distributed both in Central America and in the Caribbean. None of the remaining Philippine strains had more than 0.6% sequence divergence from American Cupriavidus lineages. These results imply that the Philippine population was founded by multiple introductions from the native range of their Mimosa hosts.	2012	10.1111/j.1574-6941.2012.01342.x
Diaz, PI; Dupuy, AK; Abusleme, L; Reese, B; Obergfell, C; Choquette, L; Dongari-Bagtzoglou, A; Peterson, DE; Terzi, E; Strausbaugh, LD	Using high throughput sequencing to explore the biodiversity in oral bacterial communities	MOLECULAR ORAL MICROBIOLOGY	High throughput sequencing of 16S ribosomal RNA gene amplicons is a cost-effective method for characterization of oral bacterial communities. However, before undertaking large-scale studies, it is necessary to understand the technique-associated limitations and intrinsic variability of the oral ecosystem. In this work we evaluated bias in species representation using an in vitro-assembled mock community of oral bacteria. We then characterized the bacterial communities in saliva and buccal mucosa of five healthy subjects to investigate the power of high throughput sequencing in revealing their diversity and biogeography patterns. Mock community analysis showed primer and DNA isolation biases and an overestimation of diversity that was reduced after eliminating singleton operational taxonomic units (OTUs). Sequencing of salivary and mucosal communities found a total of 455 OTUs (0.3% dissimilarity) with only 78 of these present in all subjects. We demonstrate that this variability was partly the result of incomplete richness coverage even at great sequencing depths, and so comparing communities by their structure was more effective than comparisons based solely on membership. With respect to oral biogeography, we found inter-subject variability in community structure was lower than site differences between salivary and mucosal communities within subjects. These differences were evident at very low sequencing depths and were mostly caused by the abundance of Streptococcus mitis and Gemella haemolysans in mucosa. In summary, we present an experimental and data analysis framework that will facilitate design and interpretation of pyrosequencing-based studies. Despite challenges associated with this technique, we demonstrate its power for evaluation of oral diversity and biogeography patterns.	2012	10.1111/j.2041-1014.2012.00642.x
Tian, CF; Zhou, YJ; Zhang, YM; Li, QQ; Zhang, YZ; Li, DF; Wang, S; Wang, J; Gilbert, LB; Li, YR; Chen, WX	Comparative genomics of rhizobia nodulating soybean suggests extensive recruitment of lineage-specific genes in adaptations	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	The rhizobium-legume symbiosis has been widely studied as the model of mutualistic evolution and the essential component of sustainable agriculture. Extensive genetic and recent genomic studies have led to the hypothesis that many distinct strategies, regardless of rhizobial phylogeny, contributed to the varied rhizobium-legume symbiosis. We sequenced 26 genomes of Sinorhizobium and Bradyrhizobium nodulating soybean to test this hypothesis. The Bradyrhizobium core genome is disproportionally enriched in lipid and secondary metabolism, whereas several gene clusters known to be involved in osmoprotection and adaptation to alkaline pH are specific to the Sinorhizobium core genome. These features are consistent with biogeographic patterns of these bacteria. Surprisingly, no genes are specifically shared by these soybean microsymbionts compared with other legume microsymbionts. On the other hand, phyletic patterns of 561 known symbiosis genes of rhizobia reflected the species phylogeny of these soybean microsymbionts and other rhizobia. Similar analyses with 887 known functional genes or the whole pan genome of rhizobia revealed that only the phyletic distribution of functional genes was consistent with the species tree of rhizobia. Further evolutionary genetics revealed that recombination dominated the evolution of core genome. Taken together, our results suggested that faithfully vertical genes were rare compared with those with history of recombination including lateral gene transfer, although rhizobial adaptations to symbiotic interactions and other environmental conditions extensively recruited lineage-specific shell genes under direct or indirect control through the speciation process.	2012	10.1073/pnas.1120436109
Haegeman, B; Weitz, JS	A neutral theory of genome evolution and the frequency distribution of genes	BMC GENOMICS	Background: The gene composition of bacteria of the same species can differ significantly between isolates. Variability in gene composition can be summarized in terms of gene frequency distributions, in which individual genes are ranked according to the frequency of genomes in which they appear. Empirical gene frequency distributions possess a U-shape, such that there are many rare genes, some genes of intermediate occurrence, and many common genes. It would seem that U-shaped gene frequency distributions can be used to infer the essentiality and/or importance of a gene to a species. Here, we ask: can U-shaped gene frequency distributions, instead, arise generically via neutral processes of genome evolution? Results: We introduce a neutral model of genome evolution which combines birth-death processes at the organismal level with gene uptake and loss at the genomic level. This model predicts that gene frequency distributions possess a characteristic U-shape even in the absence of selective forces driving genome and population structure. We compare the model predictions to empirical gene frequency distributions from 6 multiply sequenced species of bacterial pathogens. We fit the model with constant population size to data, matching U-shape distributions albeit without matching all quantitative features of the distribution. We find stronger model fits in the case where we consider exponentially growing populations. We also show that two alternative models which contain a rigid and flexible core component of genomes provide strong fits to gene frequency distributions. Conclusions: The analysis of neutral models of genome evolution suggests that U-shaped gene frequency distributions provide less information than previously suggested regarding gene essentiality. We discuss the need for additional theory and genomic level information to disentangle the roles of evolutionary mechanisms operating within and amongst individuals in driving the dynamics of gene distributions.	2012	10.1186/1471-2164-13-196
Lankau, EW; Bedon, LC; Mackie, RI	Salmonella Strains Isolated from Galapagos Iguanas Show Spatial Structuring of Serovar and Genomic Diversity	PLOS ONE	It is thought that dispersal limitation primarily structures host-associated bacterial populations because host distributions inherently limit transmission opportunities. However, enteric bacteria may disperse great distances during food-borne outbreaks. It is unclear if such rapid long-distance dispersal events happen regularly in natural systems or if these events represent an anthropogenic exception. We characterized Salmonella enterica isolates from the feces of free-living Galapagos land and marine iguanas from five sites on four islands using serotyping and genomic fingerprinting. Each site hosted unique and nearly exclusive serovar assemblages. Genomic fingerprint analysis offered a more complex model of S. enterica biogeography, with evidence of both unique strain pools and of spatial population structuring along a geographic gradient. These findings suggest that even relatively generalist enteric bacteria may be strongly dispersal limited in a natural system with strong barriers, such as oceanic divides. Yet, these differing results seen on two typing methods also suggests that genomic variation is less dispersal limited, allowing for different ecological processes to shape biogeographical patterns of the core and flexible portions of this bacterial species genome.	2012	10.1371/journal.pone.0037302
Miller-Coleman, RL; Dodsworth, JA; Ross, CA; Shock, EL; Williams, AJ; Hartnett, HE; McDonald, AI; Havig, JR; Hedlund, BP	Korarchaeota Diversity, Biogeography, and Abundance in Yellowstone and Great Basin Hot Springs and Ecological Niche Modeling Based on Machine Learning	PLOS ONE	Over 100 hot spring sediment samples were collected from 28 sites in 12 areas/regions, while recording as many coincident geochemical properties as feasible (>60 analytes). PCR was used to screen samples for Korarchaeota 16S rRNA genes. Over 500 Korarchaeota 16S rRNA genes were screened by RFLP analysis and 90 were sequenced, resulting in identification of novel Korarchaeota phylotypes and exclusive geographical variants. Korarchaeota diversity was low, as in other terrestrial geothermal systems, suggesting a marine origin for Korarchaeota with subsequent niche-invasion into terrestrial systems. Korarchaeota endemism is consistent with endemism of other terrestrial thermophiles and supports the existence of dispersal barriers. Korarchaeota were found predominantly in >55 degrees C springs at pH 4.7-8.5 at concentrations up to 6.6x10(6) 16S rRNA gene copies g(-1) wet sediment. In Yellowstone National Park (YNP), Korarchaeota were most abundant in springs with a pH range of 5.7 to 7.0. High sulfate concentrations suggest these fluids are influenced by contributions from hydrothermal vapors that may be neutralized to some extent by mixing with water from deep geothermal sources or meteoric water. In the Great Basin (GB), Korarchaeota were most abundant at spring sources of pH, 7.2 with high particulate C content and high alkalinity, which are likely to be buffered by the carbonic acid system. It is therefore likely that at least two different geological mechanisms in YNP and GB springs create the neutral to mildly acidic pH that is optimal for Korarchaeota. A classification support vector machine (C-SVM) trained on single analytes, two analyte combinations, or vectors from non-metric multidimensional scaling models was able to predict springs as Korarchaeota-optimal or sub-optimal habitats with accuracies up to 95%. To our knowledge, this is the most extensive analysis of the geochemical habitat of any high-level microbial taxon and the first application of a C-SVM to microbial ecology.	2012	10.1371/journal.pone.0035964
Belisle, M; Peay, KG; Fukami, T	Flowers as Islands: Spatial Distribution of Nectar-Inhabiting Microfungi among Plants of Mimulus aurantiacus, a Hummingbird-Pollinated Shrub	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Microfungi that inhabit floral nectar offer unique opportunities for the study of microbial distribution and the role that dispersal limitation may play in generating distribution patterns. Flowers are well-replicated habitat islands, among which the microbes disperse via pollinators. This metapopulation system allows for investigation of microbial distribution at multiple spatial scales. We examined the distribution of the yeast, Metschnikowia reukaufii, and other fungal species found in the floral nectar of the sticky monkey flower, Mimulus aurantiacus, a hummingbird-pollinated shrub, at a California site. We found that the frequency of nectar-inhabiting microfungi on a given host plant was not significantly correlated with light availability, nectar volume, or the percent cover of M. aurantiacus around the plant, but was significantly correlated with the location of the host plant and loosely correlated with the density of flowers on the plant. These results suggest that dispersal limitation caused by spatially nonrandom foraging by pollinators may be a primary factor driving the observed distribution pattern.	2012	10.1007/s00248-011-9975-8
Carbonero, F; Oakley, BB; Hawkins, RJ; Purdy, KJ	Genotypic Distribution of a Specialist Model Microorganism, Methanosaeta, along an Estuarine Gradient: Does Metabolic Restriction Limit Niche Differentiation Potential?	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	A reductionist ecological approach of using a model genus was adopted in order to understand how microbial community structure is driven by metabolic properties. The distribution along an estuarine gradient of the highly specialised genus Methanosaeta was investigated and compared to the previously determined distribution of the more metabolically flexible Desulfobulbus. Methanosaeta genotypic distribution along the Colne estuary (Essex, UK) was determined by DNA- and RNA-based denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis and 16S rRNA gene sequence analyses. Methanosaeta distribution was monotonic, with a consistently diverse community and no apparent niche partitioning either in DNA or RNA analyses. This distribution pattern contrasts markedly with the previously described niche partitioning and sympatric differentiation of the model generalist, Desulfobulbus. To explain this difference, it is hypothesised that Methanosaetas strict metabolic needs limit its adaptation potential, thus populations do not partition into spatially distinct groups and so do not appear to be constrained by gross environmental factors such as salinity. Thus, at least for these two model genera, it appears that metabolic flexibility may be an important factor in spatial distribution and this may be applicable to other microbes.	2012	10.1007/s00248-011-9993-6
Jones, RT; Bernhardt, SA; Martin, AP; Gage, KL	Interactions Among Symbionts of Oropsylla spp. (Siphonoptera: Ceratophyllidae)	JOURNAL OF MEDICAL ENTOMOLOGY	We used high-throughput DNA sequencing to explore bacterial communities of three species of Oropyslla fleas [Oropsylla hirsuta (Baker), Oropsylla montana (Baker), and Oropsylla tuberculata cynomuris (Jellison)] and detected seven bacterial lineages related to known insect symbionts. No significant co-occurrence patterns were detected among bacterial lineages, but relative abundance data suggest that the two most common lineages (Bartonella and Rickettsiales) interact negatively. Furthermore, presence of these two lineages significantly reduced bacterial diversity within fleas.	2012	10.1603/ME11244
Qi, XJ; Wang, ES; Xing, M; Zhao, W; Chen, X	Rhizosphere and non-rhizosphere bacterial community composition of the wild medicinal plant Rumex patientia	WORLD JOURNAL OF MICROBIOLOGY & BIOTECHNOLOGY	To investigate bacterial communities between rhizosphere and non-rhizosphere soils of the wild medicinal plant Rumex patientia of Jilin, China, small subunit rRNAs (16S rDNA) from soil metagenome were amplified by polymerase chain reaction using primers specific to the domain bacteria and analysed by cloning and sequencing. The relative proportion of bacterial communities in rhizosphere soils was similar to non-rhizosphere soils in five phylogenetic groups (Proteobacteria, Actinobacteria, Acidobacteria, Chloroflexi and Planctomycetes). But there were differences in five other phylogenetic groups (Firmicutes, Bacteroidetes, Gemmatimonadetes, Verrucomicrobia and Unclassified bacteria). Over 97.24 % of the sequenced clones were found to be unique to rhizosphere and non-rhizosphere soils, while 2.76 % were shared by both of them. Our results indicate that there are differences in the composition and proportion of bacterial communities between rhizosphere and non-rhizosphere soils. Furthermore, the unique bacterial clones between rhizosphere and non-rhizosphere soils of the wild medicinal plant R. patientia have obvious differences.	2012	10.1007/s11274-012-1033-2
Noyer, C; Becerro, MA	Relationship between genetic, chemical, and bacterial diversity in the Atlanto-Mediterranean bath sponge Spongia lamella	HYDROBIOLOGIA	Does diversity beget diversity? Diversity includes a diversity of concepts because it is linked to variability in and of life and can be applied to multiple levels. The connections between multiple levels of diversity are poorly understood. Here, we investigated the relationships between genetic, bacterial, and chemical diversity of the endangered Atlanto-Mediterranean sponge Spongia lamella. These levels of diversity are intrinsically related to sponge evolution and could have strong conservation implications. We used microsatellite markers, denaturing gel gradient electrophoresis and quantitative polymerase chain reaction, and high performance liquid chromatography to quantify genetic, bacterial, and chemical diversity of nine sponge populations. We then used correlations to test whether these diversity levels covaried. We found that sponge populations differed significantly in genetic, bacterial, and chemical diversity. We also found a strong geographic pattern of increasing genetic, bacterial, and chemical dissimilarity with increasing geographic distance between populations. However, we failed to detect significant correlations between the three levels of diversity investigated in our study. Our results suggest that diversity fails to beget diversity within a single species and indicates that a diversity of factors regulates a diversity of diversities, which highlights the complex nature of the mechanisms behind diversity.	2012	10.1007/s10750-011-0884-0
Lee, CK; Barbier, BA; Bottos, EM; McDonald, IR; Cary, SC	The Inter-Valley Soil Comparative Survey: the ecology of Dry Valley edaphic microbial communities	ISME JOURNAL	Recent applications of molecular genetics to edaphic microbial communities of the McMurdo Dry Valleys and elsewhere have rejected a long-held belief that Antarctic soils contain extremely limited microbial diversity. The Inter-Valley Soil Comparative Survey aims to elucidate the factors shaping these unique microbial communities and their biogeography by integrating molecular genetic approaches with biogeochemical analyses. Although the microbial communities of Dry Valley soils may be complex, there is little doubt that the ecosystems food web is relatively simple, and evidence suggests that physicochemical conditions may have the dominant role in shaping microbial communities. To examine this hypothesis, bacterial communities from representative soil samples collected in four geographically disparate Dry Valleys were analyzed using molecular genetic tools, including pyrosequencing of 16S rRNA gene PCR amplicons. Results show that the four communities are structurally and phylogenetically distinct, and possess significantly different levels of diversity. Strikingly, only 2 of 214 phylotypes were found in all four valleys, challenging a widespread assumption that the microbiota of the Dry Valleys is composed of a few cosmopolitan species. Analysis of soil geochemical properties indicated that salt content, alongside altitude and Cu2+, was significantly correlated with differences in microbial communities. Our results indicate that the microbial ecology of Dry Valley soils is highly localized and that physicochemical factors potentially have major roles in shaping the microbiology of ice-free areas of Antarctica. These findings hint at links between Dry Valley glacial geomorphology and microbial ecology, and raise previously unrecognized issues related to environmental management of this unique ecosystem. The ISME Journal (2012) 6, 1046-1057; doi:10.1038/ismej.2011.170; published online 15 December 2011	2012	10.1038/ismej.2011.170
Perrigo, AL; Romeralo, M; Baldauf, SL	Whats on your boots: an investigation into the role we play in protist dispersal	JOURNAL OF BIOGEOGRAPHY	D. M. Wilkinson (2010, Journal of Biogeography, 37, 393397) suggested that anthropogenic dispersal is an understudied and potentially important factor in terrestrial protist biogeography. We investigated human footwear as a potential vector of dictyostelids, a diverse group of amoebae that includes both geographically restricted and cosmopolitan species. Eighteen pairs of boots were examined and dictyostelids were isolated from nearly all samples larger than 5.0 g. In total, six dictyostelid isolates were recovered, corresponding to four species Dictyostelium minutum, D. sphaerocephalum, D. leptosomopsis and a new species, Polysphondylium sp. 1. Myxogastrid amoebae and acrasid-like aggregations were also observed. Thus anthropogenic dispersal of naked amoebae appears to occur. The possible role of variations in dictyostelid fruiting body morphologies in dispersal potential is also discussed. These results support Wilkinsons proposal and suggest that dictyostelids may be a useful group with which to study anthropogenic dispersal of terrestrial protists.	2012	10.1111/j.1365-2699.2012.02691.x
Stepkowski, T; Watkin, E; McInnes, A; Gurda, D; Gracz, J; Steenkamp, ET	Distinct Bradyrhizbium communities nodulate legumes native to temperate and tropical monsoon Australia	MOLECULAR PHYLOGENETICS AND EVOLUTION	Geographic isolation and growing climate aridity played major roles in the evolution of Australian legumes. It is likely that these two factors also impacted on the evolution of their root-nodule bacteria. To investigate this issue, we applied a multilocus sequence analysis (MLSA) approach to examine Bradyrhizobium isolates originating from temperate areas of Western Australia (WA) and the tropical-monsoon area of the Northern Territory (NT). The isolates were mostly collected from the nodules of legumes belonging to tribes, genera and species endemic or native to Australia. Phylogenetic analyses of sequences for the housekeeping atpD, dnaK, glnll, gyrB, recA and 16S rRNA genes and nodulation nodA gene revealed that most isolates belonged to groups that are distinct from non-Australian Bradyrhizobium isolates, which is in line with earlier studies based on 16S rRNA gene sequence analyses. Phylogenetic analysis of the nodA data allowed identification of five major Clades among the WA and NT isolates. All WA isolates grouped in a subgroup 1.1 of Clade I with strains originating from temperate eastern Australia. In contrast, the NT isolates formed part of Clades 1 (subgroup 1.2), III (subgroup III.3), IV, V and X. Of these nodA clades, Clade I, Clade IV, Clade X presumably have an Australian origin. Overall, these data demonstrate that the impact of geographic isolation of the Australian landmass is manifested by the presence of numerous unique clusters in housekeeping and nodulation gene trees. In addition, the intrinsic climate characteristics of temperate WA and tropical-monsoon NT were responsible for the formation of distinct legume communities selecting for unrelated Bradyrhizobium groups. (C) 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.	2012	10.1016/j.ympev.2011.12.020
Yang, C; Hamel, C; Vujanovic, V; Gan, Y	Nontarget effects of foliar fungicide application on the rhizosphere: diversity of nifH gene and nodulation in chickpea field	JOURNAL OF APPLIED MICROBIOLOGY	Aims: This study explores nontarget effects of fungicide application on field-grown chickpea. Methods and Results: Molecular methods were used to test the effects of foliar application of fungicide on the diversity and distribution of nifH genes associated with two chickpea cultivars and their nodulation. Treatments were replicated four times in a split-plot design in the field, in 2008 and 2009. Chemical disease control did not change the richness of the nifH genes associated with chickpea, but selected different dominant nifH gene sequences in 2008, as revealed by correspondence analysis. Disease control strategies had no significant effect on disease severity or nifH gene distribution in 2009. Dry weather conditions rather than disease restricted plant growth that year, suggesting that reduced infection rather than the fungicide is the factor modifying the distribution of nifH gene in chickpea rhizosphere. Reduced nodule size and enhanced N-2-fixation in protected plants indicate that disease control affects plant physiology, which may in turn influence rhizosphere bacteria. The genotypes of chickpea also affected the diversity of the nifH gene in the rhizosphere, illustrating the importance of plant selective effects on bacterial communities. Conclusions: We conclude that the chemical disease control affects nodulation and the diversity of nifH gene in chickpea rhizosphere, by modifying host plant physiology. A direct effect of fungicide on the bacteria cannot be ruled out, however, as residual amounts of fungicide were found to accumulate in the rhizosphere soil of protected plants. Significance and Impact of the Study: Systemic nontarget effect of phytoprotection on nifH gene diversity in chickpea rhizosphere is reported for the first time. This result suggests the possibility of manipulating associative biological nitrogen fixation in the field.	2012	10.1111/j.1365-2672.2012.05262.x
Decelle, J; Suzuki, N; Mahe, F; de Vargas, C; Not, F	Molecular Phylogeny and Morphological Evolution of the Acantharia (Radiolaria)	PROTIST	Acantharia are ubiquitous and abundant rhizarian protists in the world ocean. The skeleton made of strontium sulphate and the fact that certain harbour microalgal endosymbionts make them key planktonic players for the ecology of marine ecosystems. Based on morphological criteria, the current taxonomy of Acantharia was established by W. T. Schewiakoff in 1926, since when no major revision has been undertaken. Here, we established the first comprehensive molecular phylogeny from single morphologically-identified acantharian cells, isolated from various oceans. Our phylogenetic analyses based on 78 18S rDNA and 107 partial 28S rDNA revealed the existence of 6 main clades, sub-divided into 13 sub-clades. The polyphyletic nature of acantharian families and genera demonstrates the need for revision of the current taxonomy. This molecular phylogeny, which highlights the taxonomic relevance of specific morphological criteria, such as the presence of a shell and the organisation of the central junction, provides a robust phylogenetic framework for future taxonomic emendation. Finally, mapping all the existing environmental sequences available to date from different marine ecosystems onto our reference phylogeny unveiled another 3 clades and improved the understanding of the biogeography and ecology of Acantharia. (C) 2011 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.	2012	10.1016/j.protis.2011.10.002
Barberan, A; Fernandez-Guerra, A; Bohannan, BJM; Casamayor, EO	Exploration of community traits as ecological markers in microbial metagenomes	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	The rate of information collection generated by metagenomics is uncoupled with its meaningful ecological interpretation. New analytical approaches based on functional trait-based ecology may help to bridge this gap and extend the trait approach to the community level in vast and complex environmental genetic data sets. Here, we explored a set of community traits that range from nucleotidic to genomic properties in 53 metagenomic aquatic samples from the Global Ocean Sampling (GOS) expedition. We found significant differences between the community profile derived from the commonly used 16S rRNA gene and from the functional trait set. The traits proved to be valuable ecological markers by discriminating between marine ecosystems (coastal vs. open ocean) and between oceans (Atlantic vs. Indian vs. Pacific). Intertrait relationships were also assessed, and we propose some that could be further used as habitat descriptors or indicators of artefacts during sample processing. Overall, the approach presented here may help to interpret metagenomics data to gain a full understanding of microbial community patterns in a rigorous ecological framework.	2012	10.1111/j.1365-294X.2011.05383.x
Anesio, AM; Laybourn-Parry, J	Glaciers and ice sheets as a biome	TRENDS IN ECOLOGY & EVOLUTION	The tundra is the coldest biome described in typical geography and biology textbooks. Within the cryosphere, there are large expanses of ice in the Antarctic, Arctic and alpine regions that are not regarded as being part of any biome. During the summer, there is significant melt on the surface of glaciers, ice caps and ice shelves, at which point microbial communities become active and play an important role in the cycling of carbon and other elements within the cryosphere. In this review, we suggest that it is time to recognise the cryosphere as one of the biomes of Earth. The cryospheric biome encompasses extreme environments and is typified by truncated food webs dominated by viruses, bacteria, protozoa and algae with distinct biogeographical structures.	2012	10.1016/j.tree.2011.09.012
Rivas, Y; Huygens, D; Knicker, H; Godoy, R; Matus, F; Boeckx, P	Soil nitrogen dynamics three years after a severe Araucaria-Nothofagus forest fire	AUSTRAL ECOLOGY	Wildfires have shaped the biogeography of south Chilean AraucariaNothofagus rainforest vegetation patterns, but their impact on soil properties and associated nutrient cycling remains unclear. Nitrogen (N) availability shows a site-specific response to wildfire events indicating the need for an increased understanding of underlying mechanisms that drive changes in soil N cycling. In this study, we selected unburned and burned sites in a large area of the National Park Tolhuaca that was affected by a stand-replacing wildfire in February 2002. We conducted net N cycling flux measurements (net ammonification, net nitrification and net N mineralization assays) on soils sampled 3 years after fire. In addition, samples were physically fractionated and natural abundance of C and N, and 13C-NMR analyses were performed. Results indicated that standing inorganic N pools were greater in the burned soil, but that no main differences in net N cycling fluxes were observed between unburned and burned sites. In both sites, net ammonification and net nitrification fluxes were low or negative, indicating N immobilization. Multiple linear regression analyses indicated that soil N cycling could largely be explained by two parameters: light fraction (LF) soil organic matter N content and aromatic Chemical Oxidation Resistant Carbon (CORECarom), a relative measure for char. The LF fraction, a strong NH4+ sink, decreased as a result of fire, while CORECarom increased in the burned soil profile and stimulated NO3- production. The absence of increased total net nitrification might relate to a decrease in heterotrophic nitrification after wildfire. We conclude that (i) wildfire induced a shift in N transformation pathways, but not in total net N mineralization, and (ii) stable isotope measurements are a useful tool to assess post-fire soil organic matter dynamics.	2012	10.1111/j.1442-9993.2011.02258.x
Cao, P; Zhang, LM; Shen, JP; Zheng, YM; Di, HJ; He, JZ	Distribution and diversity of archaeal communities in selected Chinese soils	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	To understand the distribution and diversity of archaea in Chinese soils, the archaeal communities in a series of topsoils and soil profiles were investigated using quantitative PCR, T-RFLP combining sequencing methods. Archaeal 16S rRNA gene copy numbers, ranging from 4.96 x 106 to 1.30 x 108 copies g-1 dry soil, were positively correlated with soil pH, organic carbon and total nitrogen in the topsoils. In the soil profiles, archaeal abundance was positively correlated with soil pH but negatively with depth profile. The relative abundance of archaea in the prokaryotes (sum of bacteria and archaea) ranged from 0.20% to 9.26% and tended to increase along the depth profile. T-RFLP and phylogenetic analyses revealed that the structure of archaeal communities in cinnamon soils, brown soils, and fluvo-aquic soils was similar and dominated by Crenarchaeota group 1.1b and 1.1a. These were different from those in red soils, which were dominated by Crenarchaeota group 1.3 and 1.1c. Canonical correspondence analysis indicated that the archaeal community was primarily influenced by soil pH.	2012	10.1111/j.1574-6941.2011.01280.x
Salani, FS; Arndt, H; Hausmann, K; Nitsche, F; Scheckenbach, F	Analysis of the community structure of abyssal kinetoplastids revealed similar communities at larger spatial scales	ISME JOURNAL	Knowledge of the spatial scales of diversity is necessary to evaluate the mechanisms driving biodiversity and biogeography in the vast but poorly understood deep sea. The community structure of kinetoplastids, an important group of microbial eukaryotes belonging to the Euglenozoa, from all abyssal plains of the South Atlantic and two areas of the eastern Mediterranean was studied using partial small subunit ribosomal DNA gene clone libraries. A total of 1364 clones from 10 different regions were retrieved. The analysis revealed statistically not distinguishable communities from both the South-East Atlantic (Angola and Guinea Basin) and the South-West Atlantic (Angola and Brazil Basin) at spatial scales of 1000-3000 km, whereas all other communities were significantly differentiated from one another. It seems likely that multiple processes operate at the same time to shape communities of deep-sea kinetoplastids. Nevertheless, constant and homogenous environmental conditions over large spatial scales at abyssal depths, together with high dispersal capabilities of microbial eukaryotes, maintain best the results of statistically indistinguishable communities at larger spatial scales. The ISME Journal (2012) 6, 713-723; doi: 10.1038/ismej.2011.138; published online 10 November 2011	2012	10.1038/ismej.2011.138
Cardinale, M; Grube, M; Castro, JV; Muller, H; Berg, G	Bacterial taxa associated with the lung lichen Lobaria pulmonaria are differentially shaped by geography and habitat	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY LETTERS	The correlation between the taxonomic composition of Alphaproteobacteria, Burkholderia and nitrogen fixers associated with the lichen Lobaria pulmonaria and the geographical distribution of the host was studied across four sites in Europe. Results proved that the diversity of Alphaproteobacteria is affected by geography, while those of Burkholderia and nitrogen fixers were mostly driven by local habitat. This difference indicates a higher stability of the association between Alphaproteobacteria and the lichen host.	2012	10.1111/j.1574-6968.2012.02508.x
Strauss, SL; Day, TA; Garcia-Pichel, F	Nitrogen cycling in desert biological soil crusts across biogeographic regions in the Southwestern United States	BIOGEOCHEMISTRY	Biological soil crusts (BSCs) are thought to be important in the fertility of arid lands as gateways for carbon (C) and nitrogen (N). Studies on the Colorado Plateau have shown that an incomplete internal N cycle operates in BSCs that results in significant exports of dissolved organic N, ammonia and nitrate into the bulk soil through percolating water, thus mechanistically explaining their role as a N gateway. It is not known if this pattern is found in other arid regions. To examine this, we measured rates of major biogeochemical N-transformations in a variety of BSCs collected from the Colorado Plateau and the Mojave, Sonoran and Chihuahuan Deserts. Dinitrogen fixation and aerobic ammonia oxidation were prominent transformations at all sites. We found anaerobic ammonia oxidation (anammox) rates to be below the detection limit in all cases, and at least 50-fold smaller than rates of N-2-fixation, making it an irrelevant process for these BSCs. Heterotrophic denitrification was also of little consequence for the flow of N, with rates at least an order of magnitude smaller than those of N-2-fixation. Thus we could confirm that despite the demonstrable differences in microbial community composition and soil material, BSCs from major biogeographic regions in arid North America displayed a remarkably consistent pattern of internal N cycling. The implications for arid land fertility drawn from previous studies in the Colorado Plateau appear applicable to BSCs across other arid regions of the Southwestern United States.	2012	10.1007/s10533-011-9587-x
Bao, ZH; Ikunaga, Y; Matsushita, Y; Morimoto, S; Takada-Hoshino, Y; Okada, H; Oba, H; Takemoto, S; Niwa, S; Ohigashi, K; Suzuki, C; Nagaoka, K; Takenaka, M; Urashima, Y; Sekiguchi, H; Kushida, A; Toyota, K; Saito, M; Tsushima, S	Combined Analyses of Bacterial, Fungal and Nematode Communities in Andosolic Agricultural Soils in Japan	MICROBES AND ENVIRONMENTS	We simultaneously examined the bacteria, fungi and nematode communities in Andosols from four agro-geographical sites in Japan using polymerase chain reaction-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (PCR-DGGE) and statistical analyses to test the effects of environmental factors including soil properties on these communities depending on geographical sites. Statistical analyses such as Principal component analysis (PCA) and Redundancy analysis (RDA) revealed that the compositions of the three soil biota communities were strongly affected by geographical sites, which were in turn strongly associated with soil characteristics such as total C (TC), total N (TN), C/N ratio and annual mean soil temperature (ST). In particular, the TC, TN and C/N ratio had stronger effects on bacterial and fungal communities than on the nematode community. Additionally, two-way cluster analysis using the combined DGGE profile also indicated that all soil samples were classified into four clusters corresponding to the four sites, showing high site specificity of soil samples, and all DNA bands were classified into four clusters, showing the coexistence of specific DGGE bands of bacteria, fungi and nematodes in Andosol fields. The results of this study suggest that geography relative to soil properties has a simultaneous impact on soil microbial and nematode community compositions. This is the first combined profile analysis of bacteria, fungi and nematodes at different sites with agricultural Andosols.	2012	10.1264/jsme2.ME11281
Acuna, R; Padilla, BE; Florez-Ramos, CP; Rubio, JD; Herrera, JC; Benavides, P; Lee, SJ; Yeats, TH; Egan, AN; Doyle, JJ; Rose, JKC	Adaptive horizontal transfer of a bacterial gene to an invasive insect pest of coffee	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	Horizontal gene transfer (HGT) involves the nonsexual transmission of genetic material across species boundaries. Although often detected in prokaryotes, examples of HGT involving animals are relatively rare, and any evolutionary advantage conferred to the recipient is typically obscure. We identified a gene (HhMAN1) from the coffee berry borer beetle, Hypothenemus hampei, a devastating pest of coffee, which shows clear evidence of HGT from bacteria. HhMAN1 encodes a mannanase, representing a class of glycosyl hydrolases that has not previously been reported in insects. Recombinant HhMAN1 protein hydrolyzes coffee berry galactomannan, the major storage polysaccharide in this species and the presumed food of H. hampei. HhMAN1 was found to be widespread in a broad biogeographic survey of H. hampei accessions, indicating that the HGT event occurred before radiation of the insect from West Africa to Asia and South America. However, the gene was not detected in the closely related species H. obscurus (the tropical nut borer or false berry borer), which does not colonize coffee beans. Thus, HGT of HhMAN1 from bacteria represents a likely adaptation to a specific ecological niche and may have been promoted by intensive agricultural practices.	2012	10.1073/pnas.1121190109
Schottner, S; Wild, C; Hoffmann, F; Boetius, A; Ramette, A	Spatial Scales of Bacterial Diversity in Cold-Water Coral Reef Ecosystems	PLOS ONE	Background: Cold-water coral reef ecosystems are recognized as biodiversity hotspots in the deep sea, but insights into their associated bacterial communities are still limited. Deciphering principle patterns of bacterial community variation over multiple spatial scales may however prove critical for a better understanding of factors contributing to cold-water coral reef stability and functioning. Methodology/Principal Findings: Bacterial community structure, as determined by Automated Ribosomal Intergenic Spacer Analysis (ARISA), was investigated with respect to (i) microbial habitat type and (ii) coral species and color, as well as the three spatial components (iii) geomorphologic reef zoning, (iv) reef boundary, and (v) reef location. Communities revealed fundamental differences between coral-generated (branch surface, mucus) and ambient microbial habitats (seawater, sediments). This habitat specificity appeared pivotal for determining bacterial community shifts over all other study levels investigated. Coral-derived surfaces showed species-specific patterns, differing significantly between Lophelia pertusa and Madrepora oculata, but not between L. pertusa color types. Within the reef center, no community distinction corresponded to geomorphologic reef zoning for both coral-generated and ambient microbial habitats. Beyond the reef center, however, bacterial communities varied considerably from local to regional scales, with marked shifts toward the reef periphery as well as between different in-and offshore reef sites, suggesting significant biogeographic imprinting but weak microbe-host specificity. Conclusions/Significance: This study presents the first multi-scale survey of bacterial diversity in cold-water coral reefs, spanning a total of five observational levels including three spatial scales. It demonstrates that bacterial communities in cold-water coral reefs are structured by multiple factors acting at different spatial scales, which has fundamental implications for the monitoring of microbial diversity and function in those ecosystems.	2012	10.1371/journal.pone.0032093
Eisenlord, SD; Zak, DR; Upchurch, RA	Dispersal limitation and the assembly of soil Actinobacteria communities in a long-term chronosequence	ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION	It is uncertain whether the same ecological forces that structure plant and animal communities also shape microbial communities, especially those residing in soil. We sought to uncover the relative importance of present-day environmental characteristics, climatic variation, and historical contingencies in shaping soil actinobacterial communities in a long-term chronosequence. Actinobacteria communities were characterized in surface soil samples from four replicate forest stands with nearly identical edaphic and ecological properties, which range from 9500 to 14,000 years following glacial retreat in Michigan. Terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (TRFLP) profiles and clone libraries of the actinobacterial 16S rRNA gene were constructed in each site for phenetic and phylogenetic analysis to determine whether dispersal limitation occurred following glacial retreat, or if community composition was determined by environmental heterogeneity. At every level of examination, actinobacterial community composition most closely correlated with distance, a surrogate for time, than with biogeochemical, plant community, or climatic characteristics. Despite correlation with leaf litter C:N and annual temperature, the significant and consistent relationship of biological communities with time since glacial retreat provides evidence that dispersal limitation is an ecological force structuring actinobacterial communities in soil over long periods of time.	2012	10.1002/ece3.210
Lara, E; Acosta-Mercado, D	A molecular perspective on ciliates as soil bioindicators	EUROPEAN JOURNAL OF SOIL BIOLOGY	Ciliates (or Ciliophora) are probably the most popular group of protists, with some classroom lab favorites such as Paramecium spp. These highly conspicuous micro-organisms are easier to identify than many other eukaryotic microbes, at least for trained specialists. As a result, a large amount of data has been produced on their taxonomy, ecology and biogeography. Their relatively short generation times and their ubiquity in virtually all ecosystems on Earth make them excellent bioindicator organisms, particularly in soil systems. However, their practical use is hampered by long and tedious procedures of handling and preparing of specimens for identification, a task which is rendered even more difficult by the existence of cryptic species. A comfortable way to overcome these pitfalls is through the application of environmental molecular diversity screening methods that have been developed in the last two decades to the ciliate communities, and also more modern approaches such as next generation sequencing (454 pyrosequencing). As a complement, several approaches already developed for the prokaryotic communities (functional gene screening, environmental RNA clone libraries, fluorescent in situ hybridization) have not been considered today but could be easily applied to ciliate communities in soils. Still, before these methods can be applied to monitor natural ciliate communities, a considerable effort in species description and culturing (i.e. classical protistology) must be achieved in order to interpret optimally the data obtained by molecular-based techniques. Here, we provide an overview of these methods as potential monitor strategies of environmental ciliate communities and its contribution to bioindication in soils, and also their limitations. (C) 2011 Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.	2012	10.1016/j.ejsobi.2011.11.001
Mi, L; Wang, GH; Jin, J; Sul, YY; Liu, JD; Liu, XB	Comparison of microbial community structures in four Black soils along a climatic gradient in northeast China	CANADIAN JOURNAL OF SOIL SCIENCE	Mi, L., Wang, G., Jin, J., Sui, Y., Liu, J. and Liu, X. 2012. Comparison of microbial community structures in four Black soils along a climatic gradient in northeast China. Can. J. Soil Sci. 92: 543-549. Surveys of microorganisms across climatic gradients provide important information about their biodiversity and spatial distribution, which is linked to fundamental ecological functions. The present study investigated the bacterial communities, including total and culturable communities, and fungal communities in Black soils collected from Lishu (lat. 43 degrees 20N, long. 124 degrees 28E), Dehui (lat. 44 degrees 12N, long. 125 degrees 33E), Hailun (lat. 47 degrees 26N, long. 126 degrees 38E) and Beian (lat. 48 degrees 17N, long. 127 degrees 15E) in northeast China. Bacterial and fungal communities were evaluated by polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) banding patterns of partial 16S rDNA and fungal rDNA internal transcribed spacer regions (ITS), respectively. Bacterial and fungal diversity, based on the number of DGGE bands, were similar among the locations, but cluster analysis of banding patterns showed distinct microbial communities along the climatic gradient. A closer relationship was found among soil bacterial (total and culturable) and fungal communities in neighboring locations than those at greater distance, which suggested that the spatial distribution of microbial community existed in the Black Soil Zone. Comparison of DGGE profiles among the four locations showed that the changes of fungal community and culturable bacterial community were greater than that of bacterial community, suggesting that fungal community and culturable bacterial community are more suitable to study microbial biogeographic distribution in Black soils.	2012	10.4141/CJSS2010-006
Tivey, MK; Becker, E; Beinart, R; Fisher, CR; Girguis, PR; Langmuir, CH; Michael, PJ; Reysenbach, AL	Links from Mantle to Microbe at the Lau Integrated Study Site INSIGHTS FROM A BACK-ARC SPREADING CENTER	OCEANOGRAPHY	The Lau Integrated Study Site (ISS) has provided unique opportunities for study of ridge processes because of its back-arc setting in the southwestern Pacific. Its location allows study of a biogeographical province distinct from those of eastern Pacific and mid-Atlantic ridges, and crustal compositions along the ridge lie outside the range of mid-ocean ridge crustal compositions. The Lau ISS is located above a subduction zone, at an oblique angle. The underlying mantle receives water and other elements derived from the downgoing lithospheric slab, with an increase in slab influence from north to south. Water lowers the mantle melting temperature and leads to greater melt production where the water flux is greater, and to distinctive regional-scale gradients along the ridge. There are deeper faulted axial valleys with basaltic volcanism in the north and inflated axial highs with andesites in the south. Differences in igneous rock composition and release of magmatic volatiles affect compositions of vent fluids and deposits. Differences in vent fluid compositions and small-scale diffuse-flow regimes correlate with regional-scale patterns in microbial and megafaunal distributions. The interdisciplinary research effort at the Lau ISS has successfully identified linkages between subsurface processes and deep-sea biological communities, from mantle to microbe to megafauna.	2012	
Ramirez-Camejo, LA; Zuluaga-Montero, A; Lazaro-Escudero, M; Hernandez-Kendall, V; Bayman, P	Phylogeography of the cosmopolitan fungus Aspergillus flavus: is everything everywhere?	FUNGAL BIOLOGY	Aspergillus flavus is one of the most common fungal eukaryotes on the planet. It is notorious for production of aflatoxins, for causing aspergillosis in humans and animals, and as an opportunistic pathogen of animals and plants. Its role in marine habitats is unclear. Until now, little phylogeographic structure has been detected for the species, except at very local scales, and it appears to fit the classic dictum of microbial biogeography: Everything is everywhere. Here we use genetic relationships among isolates to determine phylogeographic structure, mating types, and differences in preferences for: marine vs. terrestrial habitats, various substrates, and clinical vs. nonclinical environments. Phylogenetic relationships among isolates were estimated using amplified fragment length polymorphisms (AFLPs) and mating types were determined for a worldwide sample of A. flavus isolates from diverse substrates and geographic locations. All isolates composed a single population, with no significant differentiation of marine us. terrestrial isolates, clinical vs. environmental isolates, or association with substrate or geographic origin. There was evidence for local dominance of a single clade, probably clonal in origin and short-lived. The proportion of mating types was 1:1, supporting the hypothesis of recombination in natural populations. However, a high proportion of clinical isolates were MAT1-1 (85 %), suggesting that a gene linked to the MAT1-1 idiomorph could play a role in pathogenicity. This study suggests that a more appropriate description of the phylogeography of A. flavus is everything is everywhere, but not all the time. (C) 2012 The British Mycological Society. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2012	10.1016/j.funbio.2012.01.006
Bates, ST; Nash, TH; Garcia-Pichel, F	Patterns of diversity for fungal assemblages of biological soil crusts from the southwestern United States	MYCOLOGIA	Molecular methodologies were used to investigate fungal assemblages of biological soil crusts (BSCs) from arid lands in the southwestern United States. Fungal diversity of BSCs was assessed in a broad survey that included the Chihuahuan and Sonoran deserts as well as the Colorado Plateau. At selected sites samples were collected along kilometer-scale transects, and fungal community diversity and composition were assessed based on community rRNA gene fingerprinting using PCR-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE). Individual phylotypes were characterized through band sequencing. The results indicate that a considerable diversity of fungi is present within crusted soils, with higher diversity being recovered from more successionally mature BSCs. The overwhelming majority of crust fungi belong to the Ascomycota, with the Pleosporales being widespread and frequently dominant. Beta diversity patterns of phylotwes putatively representing dominant members of BSC fungal communities suggest that these assemblages are specific to their respective geographic regions of origin.	2012	10.3852/11-232
Meyer, KM; Leveau, JHJ	Microbiology of the phyllosphere: a playground for testing ecological concepts	OECOLOGIA	Many concepts and theories in ecology are highly debated, because it is often difficult to design decisive tests with sufficient replicates. Examples include biodiversity theories, succession concepts, invasion theories, coexistence theories, and concepts of life history strategies. Microbiological tests of ecological concepts are rapidly accumulating, but have yet to tap into their full potential to complement traditional macroecological theories. Taking the example of microbial communities on leaf surfaces (i.e. the phyllosphere), we show that most explorations of ecological concepts in this field of microbiology focus on autecology and population ecology, while community ecology remains understudied. Notable exceptions are first tests of the island biogeography theory and of biodiversity theories. Here, the phyllosphere provides the unique opportunity to set up replicated experiments, potentially moving fields such as biogeography, macroecology, and landscape ecology beyond theoretical and observational evidence. Future approaches should take advantage of the great range of spatial scales offered by the leaf surface by iteratively linking laboratory experiments with spatial simulation models.	2012	10.1007/s00442-011-2138-2
Yan, PY; Hou, SG; Chen, T; Ma, XJ; Zhang, SH	Culturable bacteria isolated from snow cores along the 1300 km traverse from Zhongshan Station to Dome A, East Antarctica	EXTREMOPHILES	The abundance and community composition of culturable bacteria in four snow cores along the 1300 km traverse from Zhongshan Station to Dome A, East Antarctica, were investigated through the combination of liquid and solid media and small subunit 16S rRNA sequences. Under aerobic cultivation conditions, the average concentrations of bacterial colonies from each snow core varied from 0.008 to 0.32 CFU mL(-1). A total of 37 and 15 isolates with different morphologic characteristics were recovered from solid and liquid media PYGV, respectively. The phylogenetic analysis of 14 representatives with different ARDRA patterns from RFLP showed that all the isolates were affiliated with five phylogenetic groups: Firmicutes, Actinobacteria, Alphaproteobacteria, Gammaproteobacteria and Bacteroidetes. Actinobacteria represented the largest cluster with 43% of strains, and these strains exhibited unique phenotypic properties. The community compositions of culturable bacteria in the four snow cores were distinctly different from each other and the concentrations and community sizes of culturable bacteria along the traverse decreased with increases of latitude, altitude and distance from coast, which likely reflected the different bacterial sources and biogeographies under the different regional climate conditions in the snow cover of East Antarctica.	2012	10.1007/s00792-012-0434-3
Fortunato, CS; Herfort, L; Zuber, P; Baptista, AM; Crump, BC	Spatial variability overwhelms seasonal patterns in bacterioplankton communities across a river to ocean gradient	ISME JOURNAL	Few studies of microbial biogeography address variability across both multiple habitats and multiple seasons. Here we examine the spatial and temporal variability of bacterioplankton community composition of the Columbia River coastal margin using 16S amplicon pyrosequencing of 300 water samples collected in 2007 and 2008. Communities separated into seven groups (ANOSIM, P<0.001): river, estuary, plume, epipelagic, mesopelagic, shelf bottom (depth <350 m) and slope bottom (depth>850 m). The ordination of these samples was correlated with salinity (rho=-0.83) and depth (rho=-0.62). Temporal patterns were obscured by spatial variability among the coastal environments, and could only be detected within individual groups. Thus, structuring environmental factors (for example, salinity, depth) dominate over seasonal changes in determining community composition. Seasonal variability was detected across an annual cycle in the river, estuary and plume where communities separated into two groups, early year (April-July) and late year (August-Nov), demonstrating annual reassembly of communities over time. Determining both the spatial and temporal variability of bacterioplankton communities provides a framework for modeling these communities across environmental gradients from river to deep ocean. The ISME Journal (2012) 6, 554-563; doi: 10.1038/ismej.2011.135; published online 20 October 2011	2012	10.1038/ismej.2011.135
Schmitt, S; Tsai, P; Bell, J; Fromont, J; Ilan, M; Lindquist, N; Perez, T; Rodrigo, A; Schupp, PJ; Vacelet, J; Webster, N; Hentschel, U; Taylor, MW	Assessing the complex sponge microbiota: core, variable and species-specific bacterial communities in marine sponges	ISME JOURNAL	Marine sponges are well known for their associations with highly diverse, yet very specific and often highly similar microbiota. The aim of this study was to identify potential bacterial sub-populations in relation to sponge phylogeny and sampling sites and to define the core bacterial community. 16S ribosomal RNA gene amplicon pyrosequencing was applied to 32 sponge species from eight locations around the worlds oceans, thereby generating 2567 operational taxonomic units (OTUs at the 97% sequence similarity level) in total and up to 364 different OTUs per sponge species. The taxonomic richness detected in this study comprised 25 bacterial phyla with Proteobacteria, Chloroflexi and Poribacteria being most diverse in sponges. Among these phyla were nine candidate phyla, six of them found for the first time in sponges. Similarity comparison of bacterial communities revealed no correlation with host phylogeny but a tropical sub-population in that tropical sponges have more similar bacterial communities to each other than to subtropical sponges. A minimal core bacterial community consisting of very few OTUs (97%, 95% and 90%) was found. These microbes have a global distribution and are probably acquired via environmental transmission. In contrast, a large species-specific bacterial community was detected, which is represented by OTUs present in only a single sponge species. The species-specific bacterial community is probably mainly vertically transmitted. It is proposed that different sponges contain different bacterial species, however, these bacteria are still closely related to each other explaining the observed similarity of bacterial communities in sponges in this and previous studies. This global analysis represents the most comprehensive study of bacterial symbionts in sponges to date and provides novel insights into the complex structure of these unique associations. The ISME Journal (2012) 6, 564-576; doi: 10.1038/ismej.2011.116; published online 13 October 2011	2012	10.1038/ismej.2011.116
Andonian, K; Hierro, JL; Khetsuriani, L; Becerra, PI; Janoyan, G; Villareal, D; Cavieres, LA; Fox, LR; Callaway, RM	Geographic mosaics of plant-soil microbe interactions in a global plant invasion	JOURNAL OF BIOGEOGRAPHY	Aim Our aim in this study was to document the global biogeographic variation in the effects of soil microbes on the growth of Centaurea solstitialis (yellow starthistle; Asteraceae), a species that has been introduced throughout the world, but has become highly invasive only in some introduced regions. Location To assess biogeographic variation in plant-soil microbe interactions, we collected seeds and soils from native Eurasian C. solstitialis populations and introduced populations in California, Argentina and Chile. Methods To test whether escape from soil-borne natural enemies may contribute to the success of C. solstitialis, we compared the performance of plants using seeds and soils collected from each of the biogeographic regions in greenhouse inoculation/ sterilization experiments. Results We found that soil microbes had pervasive negative effects on plants from all regions, but these negative effects were significantly weaker in soils from non-native ranges in Chile and California than in those from the non-native range in Argentina and the native range in Eurasia. Main conclusions The biogeographic differences in negative effects of microbes in this study conformed to the enemy-release hypothesis (ERH) overall, but the strong negative effect of soil biota in Argentina, where C. solstitialis is invasive, and weaker effects in Chile where it is not, indicated that different factors influencing invasion are likely to occur in large scale biogeographic mosaics of interaction strengths.	2012	10.1111/j.1365-2699.2011.02629.x
Bik, HM; Sung, W; De Ley, P; Baldwin, JG; Sharma, J; Rocha-Olivares, A; Thomas, WK	Metagenetic community analysis of microbial eukaryotes illuminates biogeographic patterns in deep-sea and shallow water sediments	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	Microbial eukaryotes (nematodes, protists, fungi, etc., loosely referred to as meiofauna) are ubiquitous in marine sediments and probably play pivotal roles in maintaining ecosystem function. Although the deep-sea benthos represents one of the worlds largest habitats, we lack a firm understanding of the biodiversity and community interactions amongst meiobenthic organisms in this ecosystem. Within this vast environment, key questions concerning the historical genetic structure of species remain a mystery, yet have profound implications for our understanding of global biodiversity and how we perceive and mitigate the impact of environmental change and anthropogenic disturbance. Using a metagenetic approach, we present an assessment of microbial eukaryote communities across depth (shallow water to abyssal) and ocean basins (deep-sea Pacific and Atlantic). Within the 12 sites examined, our results suggest that some taxa can maintain eurybathic ranges and cosmopolitan deep-sea distributions, but the majority of species appear to be regionally restricted. For Operationally Clustered Taxonomic Units (OCTUs) reporting wide distributions, there appears to be a taxonomic bias towards a small subset of taxa in most phyla; such bias may be driven by specific life history traits amongst these organisms. In addition, low genetic divergence between geographically disparate deep-sea sites suggests either a shorter coalescence time between deep-sea regions or slower rates of evolution across this vast oceanic ecosystem. While high-throughput studies allow for broad assessment of genetic patterns across microbial eukaryote communities, intragenomic variation in rRNA gene copies and the patchy coverage of reference databases currently present substantial challenges for robust taxonomic interpretations of eukaryotic data sets.	2012	10.1111/j.1365-294X.2011.05297.x
Astorga, A; Oksanen, J; Luoto, M; Soininen, J; Virtanen, R; Muotka, T	Distance decay of similarity in freshwater communities: do macro- and microorganisms follow the same rules?	GLOBAL ECOLOGY AND BIOGEOGRAPHY	Aim An intensively debated issue in macroecology is whether unicellular organisms show biogeographic patterns different from those of macroorganisms. One aspect of this debate addresses beta diversity, that is, do microbial organisms exhibit distance-decay patterns similar to those of macroorganisms? And if so, is the decay of community similarity caused by spatially limited dispersal or by niche-related factors? We studied the community similarity of stream diatoms, macroinvertebrates and bryophytes across the same set of sites in relation to environmental and geographic distance. Location A geographical gradient of c. 1100 km in Finland. Methods We first identified the subset of environmental variables that produced the highest correlation with community similarities for each taxonomic group. Based on these variables, we used partial Mantel tests to separate the independent influences of environmental and geographical distance for distance decay of community similarity, separately for diatoms, bryophytes and macroinvertebrates. Finally, macroinvertebrates were divided into three groups based on their different dispersal categories and a partial Mantel test was used to assess whether each of these groups were differently affected by environmental versus geographic distance, i.e. is dispersal a key factor in tests of niche versus neutral models. Results The level of environmental control was by far the strongest for diatoms; however, all groups were controlled more by environmental factors than by limited dispersal. Macroinvertebrate species with low dispersal ability were significantly related to geographic distance, while more effective dispersers showed no relationship to geography but were instead strongly related to environmental distance. Main conclusions Our results suggest that patterns between macro- and microorganisms are not fundamentally different, but the level of environmental control varies according to dispersal ability. The relative importance of niche versus dispersal processes is not simply a function of organism size but other traits ( e. g. life-history type, dispersal capacity) may obscure this relationship.	2012	10.1111/j.1466-8238.2011.00681.x
Lindstrom, ES; Langenheder, S	Local and regional factors influencing bacterial community assembly	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY REPORTS	The classical view states that microbial biogeography is not affected by dispersal barriers or historical events, but only influenced by the local contemporary habitat conditions (species sorting). This has been challenged during recent years by studies suggesting that also regional factors such as mass effect, dispersal limitation and neutral assembly are important for the composition of local bacterial communities. Here we summarize results from biogeography studies in different environments, i.e. in marine, freshwater and soil as well in human hosts. Species sorting appears to be the most important mechanism. However, this result might be biased since this is the mechanism that is easiest to measure, detect and interpret. Hence, the importance of regional factors may have been underestimated. Moreover, our survey indicates that different assembly mechanisms might be important for different parts of the total community, differing, for example, between generalists and specialists, and between taxa of different dispersal ability and motility. We conclude that there is a clear need for experimental studies, first, to clearly separate regional and local factors in order to study their relative importance, and second, to test whether there are differences in assembly mechanisms depending on different taxonomic or functional groups.	2012	10.1111/j.1758-2229.2011.00257.x
Soininen, J	Macroecology of unicellular organisms - patterns and processes	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY REPORTS	Macroecology examines the relationship between organisms and their environment at large spatial (and temporal) scales. Typically, macroecologists explain the large-scale patterns of abundance, distribution and diversity. Despite the difficulties in sampling and characterizing microbial diversity, macroecologists have recently also been interested in unicellular organisms. Here, I review the current advances made in microbial macroecology, as well as discuss related ecosystem functions. Overall, it seems that microorganisms suit surprisingly well to known species abundance distributions and show positive relationship between distribution and adundance. Microbial species-area and distance-decay relationships tend to be weaker than for macroorganisms, but nonetheless significant. Few findings on altitudinal gradients in unicellular taxa seem to differ greatly from corresponding findings for larger taxa, whereas latitudinal gradients among microorganisms have either been clearly evident or absent depending on the context. Literature also strongly emphasizes the role of spatial scale for the patterns of diversity and suggests that patterns are affected by species traits as well as ecosystem characteristics. Finally, I discuss the large role of local biotic and abiotic variables driving the community assembly in unicellular taxa and eventually dictating how multiple ecosystem processes are performed. Present review highlights the fact that most microorganisms may not differ fundamentally from larger taxa in their large-scale distribution patterns. Yet, review also shows that many aspects of microbial macroecology are still relatively poorly understood and specific patterns depend on focal taxa and ecosystem concerned.	2012	10.1111/j.1758-2229.2011.00308.x
Mazard, S; Ostrowski, M; Partensky, F; Scanlan, DJ	Multi-locus sequence analysis, taxonomic resolution and biogeography of marine Synechococcus	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Conserved markers such as the 16S rRNA gene do not provide sufficient molecular resolution to identify spatially structured populations of marine Synechococcus, or ecotypes adapted to distinct ecological niches. Multi-locus sequence analysis targeting seven core genes was employed to taxonomically resolve Synechococcus isolates and correlate previous phylogenetic analyses encompassing a range of markers. Despite the recognized importance of lateral gene transfer in shaping the genomes of marine cyanobacteria, multi-locus sequence analysis of more than 120 isolates reflects a clonal population structure of major lineages and subgroups. A single core genome locus, petB, encoding the cytochrome b(6) subunit of the cytochrome b(6)f complex, was selected to expand our understanding of the diversity and ecology of marine Synechococcus populations. Environmental petB sequences cloned from contrasting sites highlight numerous genetically and ecologically distinct clusters, some of which represent novel, environmentally abundant clades without cultured representatives. With a view to scaling ecological analyses, the short sequence, taxonomic resolution and accurate automated alignment of petB is ideally suited to high-throughput and high-resolution sequencing projects to explore links between the ecology, evolution and biology of marine Synechococcus.	2012	10.1111/j.1462-2920.2011.02514.x
Freel, KC; Edlund, A; Jensen, PR	Microdiversity and evidence for high dispersal rates in the marine actinomycete Salinispora pacifica	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	In July of 2006 and January of 2008, a total of 671 marine sediment samples were collected at depths from 5 to 2012 m throughout the Fijian islands and selectively processed for the cultivation of marine actinomycetes belonging to the genus Salinispora. The primary objectives were to assess the diversity, distribution and phylogeny of S. pacifica, the least well studied of the three species in the genus. Employing a sequential screening method based on antibiotic sensitivity, RFLP patterns, and 16S rRNA and ITS sequence analyses, 42 of 750 isolates with Salinispora-like features were identified as S. pacifica. These strains represent the first report of S. pacifica from Fiji and include 15 representatives of 4 new S. pacifica 16S rRNA sequence types. Among the S. pacifica strains isolated, little evidence for geographical isolation emerged based on 16S, ITS or secondary metabolite biosynthetic gene fingerprinting. The inclusion of isolates from additional collection sites and other Salinispora spp. revealed a high degree of dispersal among S. pacifica populations and phylogenetic support for the delineation of this lineage as a third species.	2012	10.1111/j.1462-2920.2011.02641.x
Pester, M; Rattei, T; Flechl, S; Grongroft, A; Richter, A; Overmann, J; Reinhold-Hurek, B; Loy, A; Wagner, M	amoA-based consensus phylogeny of ammonia-oxidizing archaea and deep sequencing of amoA genes from soils of four different geographic regions	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Ammonia-oxidizing archaea (AOA) play an important role in nitrification and many studies exploit their amoA genes as marker for their diversity and abundance. We present an archaeal amoA consensus phylogeny based on all publicly available sequences (status June 2010) and provide evidence for the diversification of AOA into four previously recognized clusters and one newly identified major cluster. These clusters, for which we suggest a new nomenclature, harboured 83 AOA species-level OTU (using an inferred species threshold of 85% amoA identity). 454 pyrosequencing of amoA amplicons from 16 soils sampled in Austria, Costa Rica, Greenland and Namibia revealed that only 2% of retrieved sequences had no database representative on the species-level and represented 30-37 additional species-level OTUs. With the exception of an acidic soil from which mostly amoA amplicons of the Nitrosotalea cluster were retrieved, all soils were dominated by amoA amplicons from the Nitrososphaera cluster (also called group I.1b), indicating that the previously reported AOA from the Nitrosopumilus cluster (also called group I.1a) are absent or represent minor populations in soils. AOA richness estimates on the species level ranged from 8-83 co-existing AOAs per soil. Presence/absence of amoA OTUs (97% identity level) correlated with geographic location, indicating that besides contemporary environmental conditions also dispersal limitation across different continents and/or historical environmental conditions might influence AOA biogeography in soils.	2012	10.1111/j.1462-2920.2011.02666.x
Qvit-Raz, N; Finkel, OM; Al-Deeb, TM; Malkawi, HI; Hindiyeh, MY; Jurkevitch, E; Belkin, S	Biogeographical diversity of leaf-associated microbial communities from salt-secreting Tamarix trees of the Dead Sea region	RESEARCH IN MICROBIOLOGY	The leaves of Tamarix, a salt-secreting desert tree, form an extreme niche that harbors a unique microbial community. In view of the global distribution of this tree, its island-like phyllosphere is highly suitable for studying microbial diversity along geographical gradients. Here we present an analysis of microbial community diversity using leaf surface samples collected at six different sites, on both sides of the Dead Sea, over a period of one year. Biodiversity analysis of denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) patterns of the bacterial 16S rRNA gene revealed a significant degree of bacterial community similarity within trees sampled at the same site, much higher than the similarity between trees from different geographical locations. Statistical analysis indicated that the degree of similarity was negatively correlated with the distance between sampling sites, and that a weak correlation existed between diversity and leaf pH. (C) 2011 Institut Pasteur. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.	2012	10.1016/j.resmic.2011.11.006
Blaud, A; Lerch, TZ; Chevallier, T; Nunan, N; Chenu, C; Brauman, A	Dynamics of bacterial communities in relation to soil aggregate formation during the decomposition of C-13-labelled rice straw	APPLIED SOIL ECOLOGY	The addition of fresh organic matter is known to modify both microbial community structure and soil aggregation. The objective of this study was to understand the relationship between the dynamics of the soil microbial community structure in relation to that of their habitats during the decomposition of straw. Soil samples, ground (<200 mu m) to remove macroaggregates, were amended with uniformly C-13-labelled powdered rice straw (<500 mu m) and incubated for 21 days. Unamended control samples were also incubated under the same conditions. Total C and rice straw C (C-Straw) mineralised or remaining in different soil fractions (0-50, 50-200, 200-2000 and >2000 mu m) were measured. Fatty acid methyl ester (FAME) profiling was used to determine total bacterial community structure and FAME based stable isotope probing (FAME-SIP) was used to characterise the straw degrader communities. The mineralisation rate of the native C and the C-Straw was high. The formation of macroaggregates (>2000 mu m) occurred within 2 days in amended and unamended samples but did so to a greater extent in the amended samples. The C-Straw was mainly located in fractions >200 mu m, where degraders were the most abundant. The C-13-FAME profiles followed the same trends as total FAME profiles through time and within soil fractions, suggesting common dynamics between straw degraders and total bacterial communities: Gram-negative were more important in fraction >200 mu m and during the early stages of the incubation while Gram-positive and actinobacteria dominated in fine fractions and at the end of the incubation. Bacterial community structure changed rapidly (within 2 days) in conjunction with the formation of new microbial habitats, suggesting that the relationship between the two is very close. (c) 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2012	10.1016/j.apsoil.2011.11.005
Hallegraeff, GM; Blackburn, SI; Doblin, MA; Bolch, CJS	Global toxicology, ecophysiology and population relationships of the chainforming PST dinoflagellate Gymnodinium catenatum	HARMFUL ALGAE	Increasing scientific awareness since the 1980s of the chain-forming dinoflagellate Gymnodinium catenatum has led to this species being reported with increased frequency in a globally increasing number of countries (23 at present). G. catenatum exhibits little molecular genetic variation in rDNA over its global range, in contrast to RAPD fingerprinting which points to high genetic variation within regional populations even between estuaries 50 km apart. All Australian and New Zealand strains possess a thymine nucleotide (T-gene) near the start of the 5.8S rRNA whereas all other global populations examined to date possess cytosine-nucleotide (C-gene), except for southern Japan which harbours both C-gene and T-gene strains. Together with cyst and plankton evidence this strongly suggests that both Australian and New Zealand populations have derived from southern Japan. Global dinoflagellate populations and cultures exhibit an extraordinary variation in PST profiles (STX and 21 analogues), but consistent regional patterns are evident with regard to the production of C1,2; C3,4; B1,2; and neoSTX analogues. PST profiles of cyst-derived cultures are deemed unrepresentative. Distinct ecophysiological differences exist between tropical (21-32 degrees C) and warm-temperate ecotypes (12-18 degrees C), but these appear unrelated to ITS genotypes and PST toxin phenotypes. On current evidence, cyst germination appears to play a minimal role in the bloom dynamics of this species, while seasonal and inter-annual bloom variations result from the physical constraints (temperature and light) on the growth of the dinoflagellates in the water column. G. catenatum exhibits a capacity to utilize many forms of nitrogen. Its chain formation and strong motility allow it to undergo retrieval migrations to exploit light and nutrient resource gradients in both stratified and mixed environments. Subtle strain-level variations in rnicronutrient (Se, humics) requirements and interaction with associated bacterial flora may provide a partial explanation for the contrasting inshore (Tasmanian), and offshore (Spain, Mexico) bloom patterns by the same species in different geographic regions. (C) 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2012	10.1016/j.hal.2011.10.018
Gupta, V; Smemo, KA; Yavitt, JB; Basiliko, N	Active Methanotrophs in Two Contrasting North American Peatland Ecosystems Revealed Using DNA-SIP	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	The active methanotroph community was investigated in two contrasting North American peatlands, a nutrient-rich sedge fen and nutrient-poor Sphagnum bog using in vitro incubations and C-13-DNA stable-isotope probing (SIP) to measure methane (CH4) oxidation rates and label active microbes followed by fingerprinting and sequencing of bacterial and archaeal 16S rDNA and methane monooxygenase (pmoA and mmoX) genes. Rates of CH4 oxidation were slightly, but significantly, faster in the bog and methanotrophs belonged to the class Alphaproteobacteria and were similar to other methanotrophs of the genera Methylocystis, Methylosinus, and Methylocapsa or Methylocella detected in, or isolated from, European bogs. The fen had a greater phylogenetic diversity of organisms that had assimilated C-13, including methanotrophs from both the Alpha- and Gammaproteobacteria classes and other potentially non-methanotrophic organisms that were similar to bacteria detected in a UK and Finnish fen. Based on similarities between bacteria in our sites and those in Europe, including Russia, we conclude that site physicochemical characteristics rather than biogeography controlled the phylogenetic diversity of active methanotrophs and that differences in phylogenetic diversity between the bog and fen did not relate to measured CH4 oxidation rates. A single crenarchaeon in the bog site appeared to be assimilating C-13 in 16S rDNA; however, its phylogenetic similarity to other CO2-utilizing archaea probably indicates that this organism is not directly involved in CH4 oxidation in peat.	2012	10.1007/s00248-011-9902-z
McCliment, EA; Nelson, CE; Carlson, CA; Alldredge, AL; Witting, J; Amaral-Zettler, LA	An all-taxon microbial inventory of the Moorea coral reef ecosystem	ISME JOURNAL	The Moorea Coral Reef Long Term Ecological Research (LTER) Site (17.50 degrees S, 149.83 degrees W) comprises the fringe of coral reefs and lagoons surrounding the volcanic island of Moorea in the Society Islands of French Polynesia. As part of our Microbial Inventory Research Across Diverse Aquatic LTERS biodiversity inventory project, we characterized microbial community composition across all three domains of life using amplicon pyrosequencing of the V6 (bacterial and archaeal) and V9 (eukaryotic) hypervariable regions of small-subunit ribosomal RNA genes. Our survey spanned eight locations along a 130-km transect from the reef lagoon to the open ocean to examine changes in communities along inshore to offshore gradients. Our results illustrate consistent community differentiation between inshore and offshore ecosystems across all three domains, with greater richness in all domains in the reef-associated habitats. Bacterial communities were more homogenous among open ocean sites spanning >100km than among inshore sites separated by <1 km, whereas eukaryotic communities varied more offshore than inshore, and archaea showed more equal levels of dissimilarity among subhabitats. We identified signature communities representative of specific geographic and geochemical milieu, and characterized co-occurrence patterns of specific microbial taxa within the inshore ecosystem including several bacterial groups that persist in geographical niches across time. Bacterial and archaeal communities were dominated by few abundant taxa but spatial patterning was consistent through time and space in both rare and abundant communities. This is the first in-depth inventory analysis of biogeographic variation of all three microbial domains within a coral reef ecosystem. The ISME Journal (2012) 6, 309-319; doi: 10.1038/ismej.2011.108; published online 8 September 2011	2012	10.1038/ismej.2011.108
Lin, W; Wang, YZ; Li, B; Pan, YX	A biogeographic distribution of magnetotactic bacteria influenced by salinity	ISME JOURNAL	Magnetotactic bacteria (MTB), which synthesize intracellular ferromagnetic magnetite and/or greigite magnetosomes, have significant roles in global iron cycling in aquatic systems, as well as sedimentary magnetism. The occurrence of MTB has been reported in aquatic environments from freshwater to marine ecosystems; however, the distribution of MTB across heterogeneous habitats remains unclear. Here we examined the MTB communities from diverse habitats across northern and southern China, using comprehensive transmission electron microscopy and comparison of 16S rRNA gene analyses. A total of 334 16S rRNA gene sequences were analyzed, representing the most comprehensive analysis on the diversity and distribution of MTB to date. The majority (95%) of sequences belong to the Alphaproteobacteria, whereas a population of giant magnetotactic rod is affiliated with the Nitrospirae phylum. By a statistical comparison of these sequence data and publicly available MTB sequences, we infer for the first time that the composition of MTB communities represents a biogeographic distribution across globally heterogeneous environments, which is influenced by salinity. The ISME Journal (2012) 6, 475-479; doi: 10.1038/ismej.2011.112; published online 25 August 2011	2012	10.1038/ismej.2011.112
Genovese, G; Faggio, C; Gugliandolo, C; Torre, A; Spano, A; Morabito, M; Maugeri, TL	In vitro evaluation of antibacterial activity of Asparagopsis taxiformis from the Straits of Messina against pathogens relevant in aquaculture	MARINE ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH	Ethanol extracts of Asparagopsis taxiformis collected from the Straits of Messina (Italy) were screened for antibacterial activity against pathogenic shellfish and fish bacteria previously isolated from local marine and brackish environments. Genetic labelling by DNA barcoding allowed us to identify the algal population as a biogeographical strain conspecific to A. taxiformis. The extract obtained in May showed the broadest antibacterial activity against all tested pathogenic bacteria, especially against Vibrio alginolyticus. Vibrio vulnificus and Aeromonas salmonicida subsp. salmonicida. Moderate activity was observed against Photobacterium damselae subsp. damselae and Photobacterium damselae subsp. piscicida, Salmonella sp., Vibrio cholerae, Vibrio harveyi and Vibrio parahaemolyticus. The absence of cytotoxic effects of active algal extracts was verified using trypan blue exclusion test on cells of digestive glands of Mytilus galloprovincialis. The results indicated that ethanol extracts of A. taxiformis could represent a source of antibacterial substances with potential use in aquaculture. (C) 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2012	10.1016/j.marenvres.2011.10.002
Gonzalez, A; Stombaugh, J; Lauber, CL; Fierer, N; Knight, R	SitePainter: a tool for exploring biogeographical patterns	BIOINFORMATICS	As microbial ecologists take advantage of high-throughput analytical techniques to describe microbial communities across everincreasing numbers of samples, the need for new analysis tools that reveal the intrinsic spatial patterns and structures of these populations is crucial. Here we present SitePainter, an interactive graphical tool that allows investigators to create or upload pictures of their study site, load diversity analyses data and display both diversity and taxonomy results in a spatial context. Features of SitePainter include: visualizing alpha-diversity, using taxonomic summaries; visualizing beta-diversity, using results from multidimensional scaling methods; and animating relationships among microbial taxa or pathways overtime. SitePainter thus increases the visual power and ability to explore spatially explicit studies. Availability: https://sourceforge. net/projects/sitepainter	2012	10.1093/bioinformatics/btr685
Monroy, F; van der Putten, WH; Yergeau, E; Mortimer, SR; Duyts, H; Bezemer, TM	Community patterns of soil bacteria and nematodes in relation to geographic distance	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	Ecosystems consist of aboveground and belowground subsystems and the structure of their communities is known to change with distance. However, most of this knowledge originates from visible, aboveground components, whereas relatively little is known about how soil community structure varies with distance and if this variability depends on the group of organisms considered. In the present study, we analyzed 30 grasslands from three neighboring chalk hill ridges in southern UK to determine the effect of geographic distance (1-198 km) on the similarity of bacterial communities and of nematode communities in the soil. We found that for both groups, community similarity decayed with distance and that this spatial pattern was not related to changes either in plant community composition or soil chemistry. Site history may have contributed to the observed pattern in the case of nematodes, since the distance effect depended on the presence of different nematode taxa at one of the hill ridges. On the other hand, site-related differences in bacterial community composition alone could not explain the spatial turnover, suggesting that other factors, such as biotic gradients and local dispersal processes that we did not include in our analysis, may be involved in the observed pattern. We conclude that, independently of the variety of causal factors that may be involved, the decay in similarity with geographic distance is a characteristic feature of both communities of soil bacteria and nematodes. (C) 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2012	10.1016/j.soilbio.2011.10.006
Fontaneto, D; Barbosa, AM; Segers, H; Pautasso, M	The rotiferologist effect and other global correlates of species richness in monogonont rotifers	ECOGRAPHY	Global biodiversity patterns are often driven by different environmental variables at different scales. However, it is still controversial whether there are general trends, whether similar processes are responsible for similar patterns, and/or whether confounding effects such as sampling bias can produce misleading results. Our aim is twofold: 1) assessing the global correlates of diversity in a group of microscopic animals little analysed so far, and 2) inferring the influence of sampling intensity on biodiversity analyses. As a case study, we choose rotifers, because of their high potential for dispersal across the globe. We assembled and analysed a new worldwide dataset of records of monogonont rotifers, a group of microscopic aquatic animals, from 1960 to 1992. Using spatially explicit models, we assessed whether the diversity patterns conformed to those commonly obtained for larger organisms, and whether they still held true after controlling for sampling intensity, variations in area, and spatial structure in the data. Our results are in part analogous to those commonly obtained for macroorganisms (habitat heterogeneity and precipitation emerge as the main global correlates), but show some divergence (potential absence of a latitudinal gradient and of a large-scale correlation with human population). Moreover, the effect of sampling effort is remarkable, accounting for >50% of the variability; this strong effect may mask other patterns such as latitudinal gradients. Our study points out that sampling bias should be carefully considered when drawing conclusions from large-scale analyses, and calls for further faunistic work on microorganisms in all regions of the world to better understand the generality of the processes driving global patterns in biodiversity.	2012	10.1111/j.1600-0587.2011.06850.x
Strunecky, O; Komarek, J; Elster, J	Biogeography of Phormidium autumnale (Oscillatoriales, Cyanobacteria) in western and central Spitsbergen	POLISH POLAR RESEARCH	Filamentous types from the order Oscillatoriales, particularly the species Phormidium autumnale, have widely diverse morphotypes, which dominate in Arctic aquatic microbial mats and wet soils. We cultivated 25 strains of Ph. autumnale from Svalbard and compared them with available strains from surrounding regions. The comparison of strains, based on 16S rDNA and 16S-23S rDNA intergenic spacer sequences, revealed the similarity of strains from Ellesmere Island, the Canadian Arctic and Abisko, Sweden with strains from Svalbard. The rate of colonization of Ph. atumnale from aquatic habitats is relatively high and we suggest geese as a main transmission vector from surrounding lands. Strains of Ph, autumnale were positioned in the phylogenetic tree according to their occurrence in similar habitats. An apparent clustering factor is the duration of availability of water in lakes and long-lasting streams in contrast to rapid and repeated desiccation in soil and on wetted rock in the spray zone of waterfalls. Strains that grow in very cold waters just above the melting point of snow or ice form a distinct genetic group. The strains investigated in this study show morphological similarity in the shape of the trichomes of the studied specimens. Overall, the cell diameter, except for terminal cells, of our strains varied between 3 and 10 pm. Comparison of 16S rDNA sequences of the genus Ph, autumnale with the previously published definition of the species Microcoleus vaginatus revealed the identity of these two species.	2012	10.2478/v10183-012-0020-5
Sinsabaugh, RL; Shah, JJF	Ecoenzymatic Stoichiometry and Ecological Theory	ANNUAL REVIEW OF ECOLOGY, EVOLUTION, AND SYSTEMATICS, VOL 43	The net primary production of the biosphere is consumed largely by microorganisms, whose metabolism creates the trophic base for detrital foodwebs, drives element cycles, and mediates atmospheric composition. Biogeochemical constraints on microbial catabolism, relative to primary production, create reserves of detrital organic carbon in soils and sediments that exceed the carbon content of the atmosphere and biomass. The production of organic matter is an intracellular process that generates thousands of compounds from a small number of precursors drawn from intermediary metabolism. Osmotrophs generate growth substrates from the products of biosynthesis and diagenesis by enzyme-catalyzed reactions that occur largely outside cells. These enzymes, which we define as ecoenzymes, enter the environment by secretion and lysis. Enzyme expression is regulated by environmental signals, but once released from the cell, ecoenzymatic activity is determined by environmental interactions, represented as a kinetic cascade, that lead to multiphasic kinetics and large spatiotemporal variation. At the ecosystem level, these interactions can be viewed as an energy landscape that directs the availability and flow of resources. Ecoenzymatic activity and microbial metabolism are integrated on the basis of resource demand relative to environmental availability. Macroecological studies show that the most widely measured ecoenzymatic activities have a similar stoichiometry for all microbial communities. Ecoenzymatic stoichiometry connects the elemental stoichiometry of microbial biomass and detrital organic matter to microbial nutrient assimilation and growth. We present a model that combines the kinetics of enzyme activity and community growth under conditions of multiple resource limitation with elements of metabolic and ecological stoichiometry theory. This biogeochemical equilibrium model provides a framework for comparative studies of microbial community metabolism, the principal driver of biogeochemical cycles.	2012	10.1146/annurev-ecolsys-071112-124414
Fernandez, LD; Zapata, J; Meisterfeld, R; Baessolo, L	First Records and Community Pattern of Arcellinida Inhabiting a Pristine and Remote Island from Southeastern Pacific, Chile	ACTA PROTOZOOLOGICA	We investigate for the first time the species composition and community structure of lobose thecamoebians (Arcellinida) inhabiting an unpopulated and pristine island from the southeastern Pacific. Results revealed low alpha diversity and a high proportion of cosmopolitan species. One genus, four species and two subspecies were identified for the first time for southwestern South America. Further, four morphotypes were not identified to species level, and one could not be identified to species or genera level. They are probably endemics of this poorly studied and remote zone. These results were consistent with the moderate endemicity hypothesis of microbial biogeography. We hypothesized that the low diversity of species recorded on the island is due to selective colonization-extinction dynamics, processes that determines the low species richness of insular macro-organisms. However, this hypothesis needs to be evaluated in the future. Statistical analysis showed that testate amoebae were distributed in two discrete communities in the island. The first consisted of organisms inhabiting habitats located within a forest and the second by organisms inhabiting habitats located outside the forest. The suggested primary factor differentiating these both communities was the availability of appropriate habitat for the different species of testate amoebae.	2012	10.4467/16890027AP.12.011.0515
Zhang, XM; Han, XG	Nitrogen deposition alters soil chemical properties and bacterial communities in the Inner Mongolia grassland	JOURNAL OF ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCES	Nitrogen deposition has dramatically altered biodiversity and ecosystem functioning on the earth; however, its effects on soil bacterial community and the underlying mechanisms of these effects have not been thoroughly examined. Changes in ecosystems caused by nitrogen deposition have traditionally been attributed to increased nitrogen content. In fact, nitrogen deposition not only leads to increased soil total N content, but also changes in the NH4+-N content, NO3--N content and pH, as well as changes in the heterogeneity of the four indexes. The soil indexes for these four factors, their heterogeneity and even the plant community might be routes through which nitrogen deposition alters the bacterial community. Here, we describe a 6-year nitrogen addition experiment conducted in a typical steppe ecosystem to investigate the ecological mechanism by which nitrogen deposition alters bacterial abundance, diversity and composition. We found that various characteristics of the bacterial community were explained by different environmental factors. Nitrogen deposition decreased bacterial abundance that is positively related to soil pH value. In addition, nitrogen addition decreased bacterial diversity, which is negatively related to soil total N content and positively related to soil NO3--N heterogeneity. Finally, nitrogen,addition altered bacterial composition that is significantly related to soil NH4+-N content. Although nitrogen deposition significantly altered plant biomass, diversity and composition, these characteristics of plant community did not have a significant impact on processes of nitrogen deposition that led to alterations in bacterial abundance, diversity and composition. Therefore, more sensitive molecular technologies should be adopted to detect the subtle shifts of microbial community structure induced by the changes of plant community upon nitrogen deposition.	2012	10.1016/S1001-0742(11)60900-5
Nemcova, Y; Kreidlova, J; Kosova, A; Neustupa, J	Lakes and pools of Aquitaine region (France) - a biodiversity hotspot of Synurales in Europe	NOVA HEDWIGIA	A biodiversity hotspot is a biogeographic region that is a significant reservoir of species diversity. In free-living protists, the ratio of local to global diversity may help to identify hotspots within certain taxonomic groups. In this study, we concentrated on silica-scaled chrysophytes of lakes and wetland habitats of Aquitaine, south-western France. With fifty-eight identified taxa the Aquitaine region represents one of the world biodiversity hotspots of Synurales. Moreover, several rare and/or endemic species were recorded in this region. We report frequent occurrence of Mallomonas adamas not only in peaty pools but also in mesotrophic to eutrophic lakes. Mallomonas alata f. hualvensis and M. alphaphora lost the status of a South American and Australian endemics, respectively. Microphotographs of M. koreana scales and bristles, obtained in a transmission electron microscope, are provided. Mallomonas koreana has been described recently by means of scanning electron microscopy. Mallomonas phasma is reported for the second time since its original description in 1960. We also provide a figure of the whole cell armor of M. tubulosa including the description of bristles, which have not been observed yet. High density of waterbodies in the Aquitaine region, comprising diverse meso- and oligotrophic habitats, may provide a rich regional pool of Synurales resulting in the high diverse communities on a local level.	2012	10.1127/0029-5035/2012/0036
Forster, D; Behnke, A; Stoeck, T	Meta-analyses of environmental sequence data identify anoxia and salinity as parameters shaping ciliate communities	SYSTEMATICS AND BIODIVERSITY	Nearly 6000 SSU rRNA sequences of ciliated protists, compiled from 50 marine and terrestrial sampling sites worldwide were analysed to identify environmental barriers spatially relating ciliate communities. The hypotheses were: (i) oxygen is a dispersal barrier for strict anaerobes, allowing allopatric speciation in isolated habitats and resulting in high diversity; (ii) as salinity affects metabolism it may lead to distinct clusters with evolutionarily separated lineages; (iii) different oceanic realms support significantly different ciliate communities. Based on the a-diversity of the ciliate sequences in each habitat and the shared diversity among different habitats, ecological and geographic boundaries were revealed. Community similarities between pairs of habitats and all habitats were depicted with a metric distance matrix. Anoxia and salinity emerged as decisive determinants structuring the communities, with anoxia largely overlaying the effect of other environmental parameters. Measurements of a-diversity suggest a tremendous diversity of ciliates in anoxic environments, exceeding the one in normoxic environments. Salinity also exerts a high selection pressure on ciliates, contributing to community structure, composition and distribution patterns. However, marine-freshwater transitions seem to be more recent in ciliates compared with most other protistan taxa. The theory of island biogeography seems to apply to anoxic habitats, making these sites promising targets for the discovery of novel diversity.	2012	10.1080/14772000.2012.706239
Ostman, O; Drakare, S; Kritzberg, ES; Langenheder, S; Logue, JB; Lindstrom, ES	Importance of space and the local environment for linking local and regional abundances of microbes	AQUATIC MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	It is frequently observed that the local relative abundances of aquatic microbial taxa are correlated with their average relative abundance at the regional scale, which results in the composition of different communities being more similar than expected by chance or invariant. The degree to which communities within a region match the regional average community is variable and likely depends on several different mechanisms that control the process of microbial community assembly. Here, we show that environmental variables were associated with the community specific degree of regional invariance in 9 of 10 datasets of microbial communities in aquatic systems, being the main set of variables explaining differences in regional invariance in 5 of them. This indicates that variation in local environmental conditions across a region reduces the degree of regional invariance amongst communities. Spatial distances between communities were not related to the degrees of regional invariance, but in 7 of the datasets, regional invariance differed among different parts of the regions, particularly for phytoplankton communities. This suggests an influence of spatial or historical processes on the community specific degree of regional invariance. We conclude that both local environmental conditions and spatial/historical processes cause between-site differences in the degree of invariance between local and regional abundances in aquatic microbial metacommunities. We argue that studies of regional invariance can be an important complement to other statistical methods due to its propensity to detect variation in stochastic processes along gradients.	2012	10.3354/ame01581
Wilhelm, MB; Hewson, I	Characterization of Thrombolitic Bioherm Cyanobacterial Assemblages in a Meromictic Marl Lake (Fayetteville Green Lake, New York)	GEOMICROBIOLOGY JOURNAL	The Fayetteville Green Lake is a small (0.258 km(2)) meromictic marl lake that is host to a thrombolitic bioherm inhabited by coccoid and filamentous cyanobacteria. To date there has been only limited study of bioherm cyanobacterial community ecology, and none focusing on their molecular diversity. Samples of the bioherm were collected along vertical and spatial transects on a portion of the thrombolite in early fall 2010. Cyanobacterial assemblage spatial variability and operational taxonomic unit composition was analyzed by automated rRNA intergenic spacer analysis (ARISA). A total of 123 cyanobacterial ARISA operational taxonomic units were observed across all fingerprints. Cyanobacterial assemblages were variable across depth and spatial gradients, and may be structured by gradients in light availability and habitat stability. Cyanobacterial community fingerprints were more taxonomic unit rich, diverse, and had greater fingerprint similarity in deeper samples than those at the surface. Several operational taxonomic units were common to all samples taken, while the majority of assemblage components were heterogeneous between transects and depths. Hence, our results suggest that cyanobacterial communities on the thrombolite in Green Lake represent a mixture of taxa that are selected for by prevailing physicochemical conditions, while other taxa are selected for on spatial scales of meters and may represent more specialized cyanobacteria on the thrombolite. Moreover, our data suggest that the depth-dependent structure of bioherm cyanobacterial assemblages may be a consequence of habitat conditions, which may include light intensity and quality, temperature variation and habitat stability.	2012	10.1080/01490451.2011.619635
Friedline, CJ; Franklin, RB; McCallister, SL; Rivera, MC	Bacterial assemblages of the eastern Atlantic Ocean reveal both vertical and latitudinal biogeographic signatures	BIOGEOSCIENCES	Microbial communities are recognized as major drivers of the biogeochemical processes in the oceans. However, the genetic diversity and composition of those communities is poorly understood. The aim of this study is to investigate the composition of bacterial assemblages in three different water layer habitats: surface (2-20 m), deep chlorophyll maximum (DCM; 28-90 m), and deep (100-4600 m) at nine stations along the eastern Atlantic Ocean from 42.8 degrees N to 23.7 degrees S. The sampling of three discrete, predefined habitat types from different depths, Longhurstian provinces, and geographical locations allowed us to investigate whether marine bacterial assemblages show spatial variation and to determine if the observed spatial variation is influenced by current environmental conditions, historical/ geographical contingencies, or both. The PCR amplicons of the V6 region of the 16S rRNA from 16 microbial assemblages were pyrosequenced, generating a total of 352 029 sequences; after quality filtering and processing, 257 260 sequences were clustered into 2871 normalized operational taxonomic units (OTU) using a definition of 97% sequence identity. Community ecology statistical analyses demonstrate that the eastern Atlantic Ocean bacterial assemblages are vertically stratified and associated with water layers characterized by unique environmental signals (e. g., temperature, salinity, and nutrients). Genetic compositions of bacterial assemblages from the same water layer are more similar to each other than to assemblages from different water layers. The observed clustering of samples by water layer allows us to conclude that contemporary environments are influencing the observed biogeographic patterns. Moreover, the implementation of a novel Bayesian inference approach that allows a more efficient and explicit use of all the OTU abundance data shows a distance effect suggesting the influence of historical contingencies on the composition of bacterial assemblages. Surface bacterial communities displayed a general congruency with the ecological provinces as defined by Longhurst with modest exceptions usually associated with unique hydrographic and biogeochemical features. Collectively, our findings suggest that vertical (habitat) and latitudinal (distance) biogeographic signatures are present and that both environmental parameters and ecological provinces drive the composition of bacterial assemblages in the eastern Atlantic Ocean.	2012	10.5194/bg-9-2177-2012
Dunthorn, M; Stoeck, T; Wolf, K; Breiner, HW; Foissner, W	Diversity and endemism of ciliates inhabiting Neotropical phytotelmata	SYSTEMATICS AND BIODIVERSITY	While the diversity and distribution of macro-organisms living in phytotelmata (plant-container habitats) is well known, detailed taxonomic work on micro-organisms living in the same environments is limited. As a model clade of microbial eukaryotes, sampling of ciliates in Neotropical bromeliad tanks increased, and Neotropical phytotelmata such as bamboo stumps and tree holes were newly sampled. Thirty-three isolates from Brazil, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Jamaica and Mexico were sequenced for small subunit rDNA, and placed into a phylogenetic context using non-phytotelmata GenBank accessions. This and the morphological investigations discovered 45 undescribed, possibly endemic ciliate species. The potential endemics are from throughout most clades of the ciliate tree of life, and there is evidence of speciation within the Neotropical phytotelmata habitat. Our data show the number of potential Neotropical phytotelmata-endemic ciliate species increasing as more phytotelmata are sampled. While the new data show that the supposed endemics are mainly recruited from moss and ephemeral limnetic habitats, the bromeliad ciliate fauna is quite distinct from those of other limnetic habitats, lacking many typical and common freshwater genera, such as Coleps, Colpidium, Frontonia, Paramecium, Glaucoma, Nassula, Stylonychia and Trithigmostoma. There is no indication that specific ciliates are confined to specific bromeliads.	2012	10.1080/14772000.2012.685195
Frohlich-Nowoisky, J; Burrows, SM; Xie, Z; Engling, G; Solomon, PA; Fraser, MP; Mayol-Bracero, OL; Artaxo, P; Begerow, D; Conrad, R; Andreae, MO; Despres, VR; Poschl, U	Biogeography in the air: fungal diversity over land and oceans	BIOGEOSCIENCES	Biogenic aerosols are relevant for the Earth system, climate, and public health on local, regional, and global scales. Up to now, however, little is known about the diversity and biogeography of airborne microorganisms. We present the first DNA-based analysis of airborne fungi on global scales, showing pronounced geographic patterns and boundaries. In particular we find that the ratio of species richness between Basidiomycota and Ascomycota is much higher in continental air than in marine air. This may be an important difference between the blue ocean and green ocean regimes in the formation of clouds and precipitation, for which fungal spores can act as nuclei. Our findings also suggest that air flow patterns and the global atmospheric circulation are important for the understanding of global changes in biodiversity.	2012	10.5194/bg-9-1125-2012
Pedros-Alio, C	The Rare Bacterial Biosphere	ANNUAL REVIEW OF MARINE SCIENCE, VOL 4	All communities are dominated by a few species that account for most of the biomass and carbon cycling. On the other hand, a large number of species are represented by only a few individuals. In the case of bacteria, these rare species were until recently invisible. Owing to their low numbers, conventional molecular techniques could not retrieve them. Isolation in pure culture was the only way to identify some of them, but current culturing techniques are unable to isolate most of the bacteria in nature. The recent development of fast and cheap high-throughput sequencing has begun to allow access to the rare species. In the case of bacteria, the exploration of this rare biosphere has several points of interest. First, it will eventually produce a reasonable estimate of the total number of bacterial taxa in the oceans; right now, we do not even know the right order of magnitude. Second, it will answer the question of whether everything is everywhere. Third, it will require hypothesizing and testing the ecological mechanisms that allow subsistence of many species in low numbers. And fourth, it will open an avenue of research into the immense reserve of genes with potential applications hidden in the rare biosphere.	2012	10.1146/annurev-marine-120710-100948
Caron, DA; Countway, PD; Jones, AC; Kim, DY; Schnetzer, A	Marine Protistan Diversity	ANNUAL REVIEW OF MARINE SCIENCE, VOL 4	Protists have fascinated microbiologists since their discovery nearly 350 years ago. These single-celled, eukaryotic species span an incredible range of sizes, forms, and functions and, despite their generally diminutive size, constitute much of the genetic diversity within the domain Eukarya. Protists in marine ecosystems play fundamental ecological roles as primary producers, consumers, decomposers, and trophic links in aquatic food webs. Much of our knowledge regarding the diversity and ecological activities of these species has been obtained during the past half century, and only within the past few decades have hypotheses depicting the evolutionary relationships among the major clades of protists attained some degree of consensus. This recent progress is attributable to the development of genetic approaches, which have revealed an unexpectedly large diversity of protists, including cryptic species and previously undescribed clades of protists. New genetic tools now exist for identifying protistan species of interest and for reexamining long-standing debates regarding the biogeography of protists. Studies of protistan diversity provide insight regarding how species richness and community composition contribute to ecosystem function. These activities support the development of predictive models that describe how microbial communities will respond to natural or anthropogenically mediated changes in environmental conditions.	2012	10.1146/annurev-marine-120709-142802
Despres, VR; Huffman, JA; Burrows, SM; Hoose, C; Safatov, AS; Buryak, G; Frohlich-Nowoisky, J; Elbert, W; Andreae, MO; Poschl, U; Jaenicke, R	Primary biological aerosol particles in the atmosphere: a review	TELLUS SERIES B-CHEMICAL AND PHYSICAL METEOROLOGY	Atmospheric aerosol particles of biological origin are a very diverse group of biological materials and structures, including microorganisms, dispersal units, fragments and excretions of biological organisms. In recent years, the impact of biological aerosol particles on atmospheric processes has been studied with increasing intensity, and a wealth of new information and insights has been gained. This review outlines the current knowledge on major categories of primary biological aerosol particles (PBAP): bacteria and archaea, fungal spores and fragments, pollen, viruses, algae and cyanobacteria, biological crusts and lichens and others like plant or animal fragments and detritus. We give an overview of sampling methods and physical, chemical and biological techniques for PBAP analysis (cultivation, microscopy, DNA/RNA analysis, chemical tracers, optical and mass spectrometry, etc.). Moreover, we address and summarise the current understanding and open questions concerning the influence of PBAP on the atmosphere and climate, i.e. their optical properties and their ability to act as ice nuclei (IN) or cloud condensation nuclei (CCN). We suggest that the following research activities should be pursued in future studies of atmospheric biological aerosol particles: (1) develop efficient and reliable analytical techniques for the identification and quantification of PBAP; (2) apply advanced and standardised techniques to determine the abundance and diversity of PBAP and their seasonal variation at regional and global scales (atmospheric biogeography); (3) determine the emission rates, optical properties, IN and CCN activity of PBAP in field measurements and laboratory experiments; (4) use field and laboratory data to constrain numerical models of atmospheric transport, transformation and climate effects of PBAP.	2012	10.3402/tellusb.v64i0.15598
Chown, SL	Antarctic Marine Biodiversity and Deep-Sea Hydrothermal Vents	PLOS BIOLOGY	The diversity of many marine benthic groups is unlike that of most other taxa. Rather than declining from the tropics to the poles, much of the benthos shows high diversity in the Southern Ocean. Moreover, many species are unique to the Antarctic region. Recent work has shown that this is also true of the communities of Antarctic deep-sea hydrothermal vents. Vent ecosystems have been documented from many sites across the globe, associated with the thermally and chemically variable habitats found around these, typically high temperature, streams that are rich in reduced compounds and polymetallic sulphides. The animal communities of the East Scotia Ridge vent ecosystems are very different to those elsewhere, though the microbiota, which form the basis of vent food webs, show less differentiation. Much of the biological significance of deep-sea hydrothermal vents lies in their biodiversity, the diverse biochemistry of their bacteria, the remarkable symbioses among many of the marine animals and these bacteria, and the prospects that investigations of these systems hold for understanding the conditions that may have led to the first appearance of life. The discovery of diverse and unusual Antarctic hydrothermal vent ecosystems provides opportunities for new understanding in these fields. Moreover, the Antarctic vents south of 60 degrees S benefit from automatic conservation under the Convention on the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources and the Antarctic Treaty. Other deep-sea hydrothermal vents located in international waters are not protected and may be threatened by growing interests in deep-sea mining.	2012	10.1371/journal.pbio.1001232
Rahi, P; Kapoor, R; Young, JPW; Gulati, A	A genetic discontinuity in root-nodulating bacteria of cultivated pea in the Indian trans-Himalayas	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	Evolutionary relationships of 120 root-nodulating bacteria isolated from the nodules of Pisum sativum cultivated at 22 different locations of the trans-Himalayan valleys of Lahaul and Spiti in the state of Himachal Pradesh of India were studied using 16S rRNA gene PCR-RFLP, ERIC-PCR, sequencing of 16S rRNA, atpD, recA, nodC and nifH genes, carbon-source utilization pattern (BIOLOG (TM)), and whole-cell fatty acid profiling. The results demonstrated that all isolates belonged to Rhizobium leguminosarum symbiovar viciae (Rlv). Isolates from the two valleys were clearly separated on the basis of ERIC fingerprints, carbon-source utilization pattern, and whole-cell fatty acid methyl esters. Phylogenetic analysis of atpD, recA, nodC and nifH genes revealed a common Rlv sublineage in Spiti valley. Lahaul valley isolates were represented by three sequence types of atpD and recA genes, and four sequence types of nodC and nifH genes. Genotypes from the two valleys were completely distinct, except for two Lahaul isolates that shared nodC and nifH sequences with Spiti isolates but were otherwise more similar to other Lahaul isolates. Isolates from the two highest Spiti valley sites (above 4000 m) had a distinctive whole-cell fatty acid profile. Spiti valley isolates are closely related to Rlv sublineages from Xinjiang and Shanxi provinces in China, while Lahaul valley isolates resemble cosmopolitan strains of the western world. The high mountain pass between these valleys represents a boundary between two distinct microbial populations.	2012	10.1111/j.1365-294X.2011.05368.x
Ngugi, DK; Antunes, A; Brune, A; Stingl, U	Biogeography of pelagic bacterioplankton across an antagonistic temperature-salinity gradient in the Red Sea	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	The Red Sea is a unique marine ecosystem with contrasting gradients of temperature and salinity along its north-to-south axis. It is an extremely oligotrophic environment that is characterized by perpetual year-round water column stratification, high annual solar irradiation, and negligible riverine and precipitation inputs. In this study, we investigated whether the contemporary environmental conditions shape community assemblages by pyrosequencing 16S rRNA genes of bacteria in surface water samples collected from the northeastern half of this water body. A combined total of 1855 operational taxonomic units (OTUs) were recovered from the small-cell and large-cell fractions. Here, a few major OTUs affiliated with Cyanobacteria and Proteobacteria accounted for similar to 93% of all sequences, whereas a tail of rare OTUs represented most of the diversity. OTUs allied to Surface 1a/b SAR11 clades and Prochlorococcus related to the high-light-adapted (HL2) ecotype were the most widespread and predominant sequence types. Interestingly, the frequency of taxa that are typically found in the upper mesopelagic zone was significantly elevated in the northern transects compared with those in the central, presumably as a direct effect of deep convective mixing in the Gulf of Aqaba and water exchange with the northern Red Sea. Although temperature was the best predictor of species richness across all major lineages, both spatial and environmental distances correlated strongly with phylogenetic distances. Our results suggest that the bacterial diversity of the Red Sea is as high as in other tropical seas and provide evidence for fundamental differences in the biogeography of pelagic communities between the northern and central regions.	2012	10.1111/j.1365-294X.2011.05378.x
Terrat, S; Christen, R; Dequiedt, S; Lelievre, M; Nowak, V; Regnier, T; Bachar, D; Plassart, P; Wincker, P; Jolivet, C; Bispo, A; Lemanceau, P; Maron, PA; Mougel, C; Ranjard, L	Molecular biomass and MetaTaxogenomic assessment of soil microbial communities as influenced by soil DNA extraction procedure	MICROBIAL BIOTECHNOLOGY	Three soil DNA extraction procedures (homemade protocols and commercial kit) varying in their practicability were applied to contrasting soils to evaluate their efficiency in recovering: (i) soil DNA and (ii) bacterial diversity estimated by 16S rDNA pyrosequencing. Significant differences in DNA yield were systematically observed between tested procedures. For certain soils, 10 times more DNA was recovered with one protocol than with the others. About 15 000 sequences of 16S rDNA were obtained for each sample which were clustered to draw rarefaction curves. These curves, as well as the PCA ordination of community composition based on OTU clustering, did not reveal any significant difference between procedures. Nevertheless, significant differences between procedures were highlighted by the taxonomic identification of sequences obtained at the phylum to genus levels. Depending on the soil, differences in the number of genera detected ranged from 1% to 26% between the most and least efficient procedures, mainly due to a poorer capacity to recover populations belonging to Actinobacteria, Firmicutes or Crenarchaeota. This study enabled us to rank the relative efficiencies of protocols for their recovery of soil molecular microbial biomass and bacterial diversity and to help choosing an appropriate soil DNA extraction procedure adapted to novel sequencing technologies.	2012	10.1111/j.1751-7915.2011.00307.x
Araujo, PI; Yahdjian, L; Austin, AT	Do soil organisms affect aboveground litter decomposition in the semiarid Patagonian steppe, Argentina?	OECOLOGIA	Surface litter decomposition in arid and semiarid ecosystems is often faster than predicted by climatic parameters such as annual precipitation or evapotranspiration, or based on standard indices of litter quality such as lignin or nitrogen concentrations. Abiotic photodegradation has been demonstrated to be an important factor controlling aboveground litter decomposition in aridland ecosystems, but soil fauna, particularly macrofauna such as termites and ants, have also been identified as key players affecting litter mass loss in warm deserts. Our objective was to quantify the importance of soil organisms on surface litter decomposition in the Patagonian steppe in the absence of photodegradative effects, to establish the relative importance of soil organisms on rates of mass loss and nitrogen release. We estimated the relative contribution of soil fauna and microbes to litter decomposition of a dominant grass using litterboxes with variable mesh sizes that excluded groups of soil fauna based on size class (10, 2, and 0.01 mm), which were placed beneath shrub canopies. We also employed chemical repellents (naphthalene and fungicide). The exclusion of macro- and mesofauna had no effect on litter mass loss over 3 years (P = 0.36), as litter decomposition was similar in all soil fauna exclusions and naphthalene-treated litter. In contrast, reduction of fungal activity significantly inhibited litter decomposition (P < 0.001). Although soil fauna have been mentioned as a key control of litter decomposition in warm deserts, biogeographic legacies and temperature limitation may constrain the importance of these organisms in temperate aridlands, particularly in the southern hemisphere.	2012	10.1007/s00442-011-2063-4
Li, L; Sinkko, H; Montonen, L; Wei, GH; Lindstrom, K; Rasanen, LA	Biogeography of symbiotic and other endophytic bacteria isolated from medicinal Glycyrrhiza species in China	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	A total of 159 endophytic bacteria were isolated from surface-sterilized root nodules of wild perennial Glycyrrhiza legumes growing on 40 sites in central and northwestern China. Amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) genomic fingerprinting and sequencing of partial 16S rRNA genes revealed that the collection mainly consisted of Mesorhizobium, Rhizobium, Sinorhizobium, Agrobacterium and Paenibacillus species. Based on symbiotic properties with the legume hosts Glycyrrhiza uralensis and Glycyrrhiza glabra, we divided the nodulating species into true and sporadic symbionts. Five distinct Mesorhizobium groups represented true symbionts of the host plants, the majority of strains inducing N2-fixing nodules. Sporadic symbionts consisted of either species with infrequent occurrence (Rhizobium galegae, Rhizobium leguminosarum) or species with weak (Sinorhizobium meliloti, Rhizobium gallicum) or no N2 fixation ability (Rhizobium giardinii, Rhizobium cellulosilyticum, Phyllobacterium sp.). Multivariate analyses revealed that the host plant species and geographic location explained only a small part (14.4%) of the total variation in bacterial AFLP patterns, with the host plant explaining slightly more (9.9%) than geography (6.9%). However, strains isolated from G. glabra were clearly separated from those from G. uralensis, and strains obtained from central China were well separated from those originating from Xinjiang in the northwest, indicating both host preference and regional endemism.	2012	10.1111/j.1574-6941.2011.01198.x
Wilkinson, DM; Koumoutsaris, S; Mitchell, EAD; Bey, I	Modelling the effect of size on the aerial dispersal of microorganisms	JOURNAL OF BIOGEOGRAPHY	Aim We investigate the long-standing question of whether the small size of microbes allows most microbial species to colonize all suitable sites around the globe or whether their ranges are limited by opportunities for dispersal. In this study we use a modelling approach to investigate the effect of size on the probability of between-continent dispersal using virtual microorganisms in a global model of the Earths atmosphere. Location Global. Methods We use a computer model of global atmospheric circulation to investigate the effect of microbe size (effective diameters of 9, 20, 40 and 60 mu m) on the probability of aerial dispersal. Results We found that for smaller microbes, once airborne, dispersal is remarkably successful over a 1-year period. The most striking results are the extensive within-hemisphere distribution of virtual microbes of 9 and 20 mu m diameter and the lack of dispersal between the Northern and Southern Hemispheres during the year-long time-scale of our simulations. Main conclusions Above a diameter of 20 mu m wind dispersal of virtual microbes between continents becomes increasingly unlikely, and it does not occur at all (within our simulated 1-year period) for those of 60 mu m diameter. Within our simulation, the success of small microbes in long-distance dispersal is due both to their greater abundance and to their longer time in the atmosphere - once airborne - compared with larger microbes.	2012	10.1111/j.1365-2699.2011.02569.x
Ahlgren, NA; Rocap, G	Diversity and distribution of marine Synechococcus: multiple gene phylogenies for consensus classification and development of qPCR assays for sensitive measurement of clades in the ocean	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Marine Synechococcus is a globally significant genus of cyanobacteria that is comprised of multiple genetic lineages or clades. These clades are thought to represent ecologically distinct units, or ecotypes. Because multiple clades often co-occur together in the oceans, Synechococcus are ideal microbes to explore how closely related bacterial taxa within the same functional guild of organisms co-exist and partition marine habitats. Here we sequenced multiple gene loci from cultured strains to confirm the congruency of clade classifications between the 16S-23S rDNA internally transcribed spacer (ITS), 16S rDNA, narB, ntcA, and rpoC1 loci commonly used in Synechococcus diversity studies. We designed quantitative PCR (qPCR) assays that target the ITS for 10 Synechococcus clades, including four clades, XV, XVI, CRD1, and CRD2, not covered by previous assays employing other loci. Our new qPCR assays are very sensitive and specific, detecting down to tens of cells per ml. Application of these qPCR assays to field samples from the northwest Atlantic showed clear shifts in Synechococcus community composition across a coastal to open-ocean transect. Consistent with previous studies, clades I and IV dominated cold, coastal Synechococcus communities. Clades II and X were abundant at the two warmer, off-shore stations, and at all stations multiple Synechococcus clades co-occurred. qPCR assays developed here provide valuable tools to further explore the dynamics of microbial community structure and the mechanisms of co-existence.	2012	10.3389/fmicb.2012.00213
Arnosti, C; Fuchs, BM; Amann, R; Passow, U	Contrasting extracellular enzyme activities of particle-associated bacteria from distinct provinces of the North Atlantic Ocean	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Microbial communities play a key role in the marine carbon cycle, processing much of phytoplankton-derived organic matter. The composition of these communities varies by depth, season, and location in the ocean; the functional consequences of these compositional variations for the carbon cycle are only beginning to be explored. We measured the abilities of microbial communities in the large-particle fraction (retained by a 10-m pore-size cartridge filter) to enzymatically hydrolyze high molecular weight substrates, and therefore initiate carbon remineralization in four distinct oceanic provinces: the boreal polar (BPLR), the Arctic oceanic (ARCT), the North Atlantic drift (NADR), and the North Atlantic subtropical (NAST) provinces. Since we expected the large-particle fraction to include phytoplankton cells, we measured the hydrolysis of polysaccharide substrates (laminarin, fucoidan, xylan, and chondroitin sulfate) expected to be associated with phytoplankton. Hydrolysis rates and patterns clustered into two groups, the BPLR/ARCT and the NADR/NAST. All four substrates were hydrolyzed by the BPLR/ARCT communities; hydrolysis rates of individual substrate varied by factors of ca. 1-4. In contrast, chondroitin was not hydrolyzed in the NADR/NAST, and hydrolytic activity was dominated by laminarinase. Fluorescence in situ hybridization of the large-particle fraction post-incubation showed a substantial contribution (15-26%) of CF319a-positive cells (Bacteroidetes) to total DAPIstainable cells. Concurrent studies of microbial community composition and of fosmids from these same stations also demonstrated similarities between BPLR and ARCT stations, which were distinct from the NADR/NAST stations. Together, these data support a picture of compositionally as well as functionally distinct communities across these oceanic provinces.	2012	10.3389/fmicb.2012.00425
Biddle, JF; Sylvan, JB; Brazelton, WJ; Tully, BJ; Edwards, KJ; Moyer, CL; Heidelberg, JF; Nelson, WC	Prospects for the study of evolution in the deep biosphere	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Since the days of Darwin, scientists have used the framework of the theory of evolution to explore the interconnectedness of life on Earth and adaptation of organisms to the ever-changing environment. The advent of molecular biology has advanced and accelerated the study of evolution by allowing direct examination of the genetic material that ultimately determines the phenotypes upon which selection acts. The study of evolution has been furthered through examination of microbial evolution, with large population numbers, short generation times, and easily extractable DNA. Such work has spawned the study of microbial biogeography, with the realization that concepts developed in population genetics may be applicable to microbial genomes (Martiny et al., 2006; Manhes and Velicer, 2011). Microbial biogeography and adaptation has been examined in many different environments. Here we argue that the deep biosphere is a unique environment for the study of evolution and list specific factors that can be considered and where the studies may be performed. This publication is the result of the NSF-funded Center for Dark Energy Biosphere Investigations (C-DEBI) theme team on Evolution (www.darkenergybiosphere.org).	2012	10.3389/fmicb.2011.00285
Biller, SJ; Mosier, AC; Wells, GF; Francis, CA	Global biodiversity of aquatic ammonia-oxidizing archaea is partitioned by habitat	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Archaea play an important role in nitrification and are, thus, inextricably linked to the global carbon and nitrogen cycles. Since the initial discovery of an ammonia monooxygenase a-subunit (amoA) gene associated with an archaeal metagenomic fragment, archaeal amoA sequences have been detected in a wide variety of nitrifying environments. Recent sequencing efforts have revealed extensive diversity of archaeal amoA sequences within different habitats. In this study, we have examined over 8000 amoA sequences from the literature and public databases in an effort to understand the ecological factors influencing the distribution and diversity of ammonia-oxidizing archaea (AOA), with a particular focus on sequences from aquatic habitats. This broad survey provides strong statistical support for the hypothesis that different environments contain distinct clusters of AOA amoA sequences, as surprisingly few sequences are found in more than one habitat type. Within aquatic environments, salinity, depth in the water column, and temperature were significantly correlated with the distribution of sequence types. These findings support the existence of multiple distinct aquatic AOA populations in the environment and suggest some possible selective pressures driving the partitioning of AOA amoA diversity.	2012	10.3389/fmicb.2012.00252
Choudoir, MJ; Campbell, AN; Buckley, DH	Grappling with Proteus: population-level approaches to understanding microbial diversity	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	The emerging fields of microbial population genetics and genomics provide an avenue to study the ecological rules that govern how communities form, function, and evolve. Our struggle to understand the causes and consequences of microbial diversity stems from our inability to define ecologically and evolutionarily meaningful units of diversity. The 16S rRNA-based tools that have been so useful in charting microbial diversity may lack sufficient sensitivity to answer many questions about the ecology and evolution of microbes. Examining genetic diversity with increased resolution is vital to understanding the forces shaping community structure. Population genetic analyses enabled by whole genome sequencing, multilocus sequence analyses, or single-nucleotide polymorphism analyses permit the testing of hypotheses pertaining to the geographic distribution, migration, and habitat preference of specific microbial lineages. Furthermore, these approaches can reveal patterns of gene exchange within and between populations and communities. Tools from microbial population genetics and population genomics can be used to increase the resolution with which we measure microbial diversity, enabling a focus on the scale of genetic diversity at which ecological processes impact evolutionary events. This tighter focus promises to improve our understanding of the causes and consequences of microbial community structure.	2012	10.3389/fmicb.2012.00336
Flores, GE; Wagner, ID; Liu, YT; Reysenbach, AL	Distribution, abundance, and diversity patterns of the thermoacidophilic deep-sea hydrothermal vent euryarchaeota 2	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Cultivation-independent studies have shown that taxa belonging to the deep-sea hydrothermal vent euryarchaeota 2 (DHVE2) lineage are widespread at deep-sea hydrothermal vents. While this lineage appears to be a common and important member of the microbial community at vent environments, relatively little is known about their overall distribution and phylogenetic diversity. In this study, we examined the distribution, relative abundance, co-occurrence patterns, and phylogenetic diversity of cultivable thermoacidophilic DHVE2 in deposits from globally distributed vent fields. Results of quantitative polymerase chain reaction assays with primers specific for the DHVE2 and Archaea demonstrate the ubiquity of the DHVE2 at deep-sea vents and suggest that they are significant members of the archaeal communities of established vent deposit communities. Local similarity analysis of pyrosequencing data revealed that the distribution of the DHVE2 was positively correlated with 10 other Euryarchaeota phylotypes and negatively correlated with mostly Crenarchaeota phylotypes. Targeted cultivation efforts resulted in the isolation of 12 axenic strains from six different vent fields, expanding the cultivable diversity of this lineage to vents along the East Pacific Rise and Mid-Atlantic Ridge. Eleven of these isolates shared greater than 97% 16S rRNA gene sequence similarity with one another and the only described isolate of the DHVE2, Aciduliprofundum boonei T469(T). Sequencing and phylogenetic analysis of five protein-coding loci, atpA, EF-2, radA, rpoB, and secY, revealed clustering of isolates according to geographic region of isolation. Overall, this study increases our understanding of the distribution, abundance, and phylogenetic diversity of the DHVE2.	2012	10.3389/fmicb.2012.00047
Larouche, JR; Bowden, WB; Giordano, R; Flinn, MB; Crump, BC	Microbial biogeography of arctic streams: exploring influences of lithology and habitat	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism and 16S rRNA gene sequencing were used to explore the community composition of bacterial communities in biofilms on sediments (epipssamon) and rocks (epilithon) in stream reaches that drain watersheds with contrasting lithologies in the Noatak National Preserve, Alaska. Bacterial community composition varied primarily by stream habitat and secondarily by lithology. Positive correlations were detected between bacterial community structure and nutrients, base cations, and dissolved organic carbon. Our results showed significant differences at the stream habitat, between epipssamon and epilithon bacterial communities, which we expected. Our results also showed significant differences at the landscape scale that could be related to different lithologies and associated stream biogeochemistry. These results provide insight into the bacterial community composition of little known and pristine arctic stream ecosystems and illustrate how differences in the lithology, soils, and vegetation community of the terrestrial environment interact to influence stream bacterial taxonomic richness and composition.	2012	10.3389/fmicb.2012.00309
Lovell, CR; Davis, DA	Specificity of salt marsh diazotrophs for vegetation zones and plant hosts: results from a North American marsh	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Salt marshes located on the east coast of temperate North America are highly productive, typically nitrogen-limited, and support diverse assemblages of free-living nitrogen fixing (diazotrophic) bacteria. This article reviews and analyzes data from North Inlet estuary (SC, USA), addressing diazotroph assemblage structure and the influence of plant host and environmental conditions on the assemblage.The North Inlet estuary is a salt marsh ecosystem in which anthropogenic influences are minimal and the distributions of diazotrophs are governed by the natural biota and dynamics of the system. Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis fingerprinting and phylogenetic analyses of recovered sequences demonstrated that the distributions of some diazotrophs reflect plant host specificity and that diazotroph assemblages distributed across marsh gradients are also heavily influenced by edaphic conditions. Broadly distributed diazotrophs that are capable of maintaining populations under all environmental conditions spanning such gradients are also present in these assemblages. Statistical analyses indicate that the structures of diazotroph assemblages in different vegetation zones are significantly (p < 0.01) different. New data presented here demonstrate the heterogeneity of salt marsh rhizosphere microenvironments, and corroborate previous findings from different plant hosts growing at several locations within this estuary. The data from these collected works support the hypothesis that the biogeography of microorganisms is non-random and these biogeographic patterns are predictable.	2012	10.3389/fmicb.2012.00084
Rossi, P; Shani, N; Kohler, F; Imfeld, G; Holliger, C	Ecology and biogeography of bacterial communities associated with chloroethene-contaminated aquifers	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Massive usage, along with careless handling, storage, spills, and leakages made chloroethenes (CEs) one of the most abundant classes of groundwater contaminants. Anaerobic organohalide respiring bacteria (OHRB) can couple reductive dechlorination of CEs with energy conservation, a central microbial process in (enhanced) natural attenuation of CE-contaminated aquifers. Spatial variability of OHRB guild members present in contaminated sites has not yet been investigated in detail and it is not known whether the spatial localization of contaminated sites could impact differentially remediation capacities. The goal of this study was to investigate how spatially distant microbial communities responded to the presence of CEs. Bacterial communities associated with five geographically distant European CE-contaminated aquifers were analyzed with terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism. Numerical ecology tools were used to assess the separate and combined effects on the communities of their spatial localization, their local environmental conditions and their contaminant concentrations. Three spatial scales were used for the assessment of the structuration of the communities as a function of geographical distances, namely at the aquifer scale, at medium (50 km) and long (ca. 1000 km) distances between aquifers. As a result, bacterial communities were structured with an almost identical contribution by both the geographical position of the aquifer and local environmental variables, especially electron donors and acceptors. The impact of environmental factors decreased with distance between aquifers, with the concomitant increase in importance of a geographical factor. Contrastingly, CEs contributed at a low extent at the medium scale and became important only when all aquifers were considered together, at a large geographical scale, suggesting that distant communities were structured partially by a common niche specialization in organohalide respiration.	2012	10.3389/fmicb.2012.00260
Rix, MG; Harvey, MS	Australian Assassins, Part II: A review of the new assassin spider genus Zephyrarchaea (Araneae,Archaeidae) from southern Australia	ZOOKEYS	The Assassin Spiders of the family Archaeidae from southern Australia are revised, with a new genus (Zephyrarchaea gen. n.) and nine new species described from temperate, mesic habitats in southern Victoria, South Australia and south-western Western Australia: Z austini sp. n., Z barrettae sp. n., Z grayi sp. n., Z janineae sp. n., Z marae sp. n., Z marki sp. n., Z. melindae sp. n., Z porchi sp. n. and Z. vichickmani sp. n. Specimens of the type species, Z mainae (Platnick, 1991), comb. n., are redescribed from the Albany region of Western Australia, along with the holotype female of Z. robinsi (Harvey, 2002) comb. n. from the Stirling Range National Park. The previously described species Archaea hickmani Butler, 1929 from Victoria is here recognised as a nomen dubium. A key to species and multi-locus molecular phylogeny complement the species-level taxonomy, with maps, habitat photos, natural history information and conservation assessments provided for all species.	2012	10.3897/zookeys.191.3070
LaJeunesse, TC; Thornhill, DJ	Improved Resolution of Reef-Coral Endosymbiont (Symbiodinium) Species Diversity, Ecology, and Evolution through psbA Non-Coding Region Genotyping	PLOS ONE	Ribosomal DNA sequence data abounds from numerous studies on the dinoflagellate endosymbionts of corals, and yet the multi-copy nature and intragenomic variability of rRNA genes and spacers confound interpretations of symbiont diversity and ecology. Making consistent sense of extensive sequence variation in a meaningful ecological and evolutionary context would benefit from the application of additional genetic markers. Sequences of the non-coding region of the plastid psbA minicircle (psbA (ncr)) were used to independently examine symbiont genotypic and species diversity found within and between colonies of Hawaiian reef corals in the genus Montipora. A single psbA(ncr) haplotype was recovered in most samples through direct sequencing (similar to 80-90%) and members of the same internal transcribed spacer region 2 (ITS2) type were phylogenetically differentiated from other ITS2 types by substantial psbA ncr sequence divergence. The repeated sequencing of bacterially-cloned fragments of psbA ncr from samples and clonal cultures often recovered a single numerically common haplotype accompanied by rare, highly-similar, sequence variants. When sequence artifacts of cloning and intragenomic variation are factored out, these data indicate that most colonies harbored one dominant Symbiodinium genotype. The cloning and sequencing of ITS2 DNA amplified from these same samples recovered numerically abundant variants (that are diagnostic of distinct Symbiodinium lineages), but also generated a large amount of sequences comprising PCR/cloning artifacts combined with ancestral and/or rare variants that, if incorporated into phylogenetic reconstructions, confound how small sequence differences are interpreted. Finally, psbA ncr sequence data from a broad sampling of Symbiodinium diversity obtained from various corals throughout the Indo-Pacific were concordant with ITS lineage membership (defined by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis screening), yet exhibited substantially greater sequence divergence and revealed strong phylogeographic structure corresponding to major biogeographic provinces. The detailed genetic resolution provided by psbA(ncr) data brings further clarity to the ecology, evolution, and systematics of symbiotic dinoflagellates.	2011	10.1371/journal.pone.0029013
Gubry-Rangin, C; Hai, B; Quince, C; Engel, M; Thomson, BC; James, P; Schloter, M; Griffiths, RI; Prosser, JI; Nicol, GW	Niche specialization of terrestrial archaeal ammonia oxidizers	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	Soil pH is a major determinant of microbial ecosystem processes and potentially a major driver of evolution, adaptation, and diversity of ammonia oxidizers, which control soil nitrification. Archaea are major components of soil microbial communities and contribute significantly to ammonia oxidation in some soils. To determine whether pH drives evolutionary adaptation and community structure of soil archaeal ammonia oxidizers, sequences of amoA, a key functional gene of ammonia oxidation, were examined in soils at global, regional, and local scales. Globally distributed database sequences clustered into 18 well-supported phylogenetic lineages that dominated specific soil pH ranges classified as acidic (pH < 5), acido-neutral (5 <= pH < 7), or alkalinophilic (pH >= 7). To determine whether patterns were reproduced at regional and local scales, amoA gene fragments were amplified from DNA extracted from 47 soils in the United Kingdom (pH 3.5-8.7), including a pH-gradient formed by seven soils at a single site (pH 4.5-7.5). High-throughput sequencing and analysis of amoA gene fragments identified an additional, previously undiscovered phylogenetic lineage and revealed similar pH-associated distribution patterns at global, regional, and local scales, which were most evident for the five most abundant clusters. Archaeal amoA abundance and diversity increased with soil pH, which was the only physicochemical characteristic measured that significantly influenced community structure. These results suggest evolution based on specific adaptations to soil pH and niche specialization, resulting in a global distribution of archaeal lineages that have important consequences for soil ecosystem function and nitrogen cycling.	2011	10.1073/pnas.1109000108
Johnson, MA; Winquist, RJ	Island biogeography effects on microbial evolution may contribute to Crohns disease	BIOCHEMICAL PHARMACOLOGY	Inflammatory bowel diseases (IBDs), such as Crohns disease (CD), involve a poorly understood and complex immune response to both the biota of the human gut and the gut itself. The role of the gut biota in human health has been ill defined and attitudes toward the intestinal flora have ranged from judging them largely irrelevant to declaring them a human organ system. A better way to view the intestinal flora is as a group of evolutionarily self-interested species that form large, potentially interbreeding populations that utilize human beings as a series of semi-isolated habitats, like islands in an archipelago. Here we propose that the imposition of modern sanitation and hygiene standards has drastically attenuated the connection between the islands inhabited by the gut flora, and that existing work drawn from evolutionary biology studies of island ecosystems, rather than medicine, predicts that the evolution of gut flora should now be pushed toward limited-dispersion forms of intestinal microorganisms - a proposition borne out by the discovery of so-called adherent invasive Escherichia coli. This pathogenic variant of the gut bacterium E. coli clings to and invades the intestinal epithelium and has been implicated in CD. Gut flora and diseases of the gut should arguably be studied as ecology as much as medicine, and treated within this context. (C) 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.	2011	10.1016/j.bcp.2011.07.088
Wu, HB; Guo, YT; Wang, GH; Dai, SK; Li, X	Composition of bacterial communities in deep-sea sediments from the South China Sea, the Andaman Sea and the Indian Ocean	AFRICAN JOURNAL OF MICROBIOLOGY RESEARCH	The bacterial diversity of deep-sea sediments collected from the South China Sea (B111), the Andaman Sea (ADM), and the Indian Ocean (P10) was investigated through the construction of 16S recombinant deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) clone libraries for sequencing. The structure of the bacterial community and their phylogenetic relationships were analyzed using the Mothur software. The nutrient and heavy metal content of the sediments were also analyzed. In total, 263 valid sequences were obtained from 300 sequenced clones. There were 151 operational taxonomic units (OTUs) that belong to Actinobacteria, Proteobacteria, Planctomycetes, Bacteroidetes, Gemmatimonadetes, Nitrospira, Chloroflexi, Acidobacteria, WS3, BRC1, OD1, and numerous unclassified bacteria. The Chao1 and Shannon indices showed that B111 had the highest diversity, but P10 had the richest OTUs. The P < 0.05 value of the parsimony index, LIBSHUFF, and weighted UniFrac analyses indicated important distinctions in the structure and diversity of the bacterial communities. These differences are related to the nutrient and heavy metal content of the sediments. The present study clearly demonstrates the wide bacterial diversity in deep-sea sediments from the South China Sea, the ADM, and the P10, including a large number of unknown bacteria. Due to the different geographical locations of the sediments, the structures of their bacterial communities are also remarkably distinct.	2011	10.5897/AJMR11.302
Wenner, S; Lodders, N; Kampfer, P	Diversity and biogeography of selected phyllosphere bacteria with special emphasis on Methylobacterium spp.	SYSTEMATIC AND APPLIED MICROBIOLOGY	On the basis of cultivation-dependent (isolation on mineral salt medium supplemented with 0.5% methanol) and -independent (DGGE analysis) methods, we investigated the influence of the host plant species Trifolium repens and Cerastium holosteoides, three geographic locations and the land-use types meadow, mown pasture and pasture on the abundance and community composition of selected phyllosphere bacteria with emphasis on Methylobacterium species. Methylobacterium abundance was significantly higher on leaves of T. repens (mean value 2.0 x 10(7) CFU PPFM per g leaf) than on leaves of C. holosteoides (mean value 2.0 x 10(6) CFU per g leaf). Leaves from the sampling site Schorfheide-Chorin showed slightly lower Methylobacterium numbers than leaves of the other sampling sites. Land-use and sampling period had no consistent influence on Methylobacterium community size. Methylobacterium community composition was very similar over both sampling periods, all three sampling sites, all land-use types and both plant species. Moreover, no relationship between geographic and genetic distance was observed. Community composition of selected Proteobacteria was influenced by plant species, geographic location and land-use. Often, differences in community composition could be observed between meadows, mown pastures and pastures but not between different kinds of meadows (cutted once versus three times) and mown pastures (fertilized versus non-fertilized). The results also indicate, that whether there are differences between land-use types or not strongly depends on the investigated host plant species and ecosystem. Besides Methylobacterium, representatives of Methylophilus were detected. The results indicate that Methylobacterium species are generally abundant and stable members of the phyllosphere community whereas other genera occur more occasionally, and that Methylobacterium clearly dominates the methylotrophic phyllosphere community. (C) 2011 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.	2011	10.1016/j.syapm.2011.08.005
Kamilar, JM; Bradley, BJ	Interspecific variation in primate coat colour supports Glogers rule	JOURNAL OF BIOGEOGRAPHY	Aim In 1833, C.L. Gloger observed that bird populations living in warm and wet habitats were darker than those found in dry, cool areas. However, this hypothesis has seldom been evaluated, particularly for mammals. Here, we test Glogers rule using a dataset consisting of more than 100 primate species representing all major primate clades. Location Africa, Madagascar, Asia and the Neotropics. Methods We used museum skins, digital photography, and colour correction software to quantify the brightness of the dorsal and ventral pelage surface of each species. We utilized the mean actual evapotranspiration (AET) within the geographic range of each species as a proxy for habitat conditions and accounted for additional variables that may influence coloration. To analyse the data, we used a generalized linear model that simultaneously accounts for the effects of phylogenetic and spatial autocorrelation. Results We found that increasing levels of AET were significantly related to increasing pelage darkness on the dorsal surface of species, while accounting for other effects. Main conclusions Our finding provides further support for the applicability of Glogers rule to mammals, and is the first broad-scale evaluation for primates. The mechanism driving Glogers rule is not easy to discern, but may include increased background matching for species living in relatively light or dark habitats, increased resistance to keratin-degrading micro-organisms in hair with large amounts of eumelanin, and/or thermoregulation.	2011	10.1111/j.1365-2699.2011.02587.x
Logares, R	Population genetics: the next stop for microbial ecologists?	CENTRAL EUROPEAN JOURNAL OF BIOLOGY	Microbes play key roles in the functioning of the biosphere. Still, our knowledge about their total diversity is very limited. In particular, we lack a clear understanding of the evolutionary dynamics occurring within their populations (i.e. among members of the same biological species). Unlike animals and plants, microbes normally have huge population sizes, high reproductive rates and the potential for unrestricted dispersal. As a consequence, the knowledge of population genetics acquired from studying animals and plants cannot be applied without extensive testing to microbes. Next generation molecular tools, like High Throughput Sequencing (e.g. 454 and Illumina) coupled to Single Cell Genomics, now allow investigating microbial populations at a very fine scale. Such techniques have the potential to shed light on several ecological and evolutionary processes occurring within microbial populations that so far have remained hidden. Furthermore, they may facilitate the identification of microbial species. Eventually, we may find an answer to the question of whether microbes and multicellular organisms follow the same or different rules in their population diversification patterns.	2011	10.2478/s11535-011-0086-9
Alonso-Saez, L; Andersson, A; Heinrich, F; Bertilsson, S	High archaeal diversity in Antarctic circumpolar deep waters	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY REPORTS	Archaea are abundant in polar oceans but important ecological aspects of this group remain enigmatic, such as patterns of diversity and biogeography. Here, we provide the first high-throughput sequencing population study of Antarctic archaea based on 198 bp fragments of the 16S rRNA gene, targeting different water masses across the Amundsen and Ross Seas. Our results suggest that archaeal community composition is strongly shaped by hydrography and significantly influenced by environmental parameters. Archaeal communities from cold continental shelf waters (SW) of the Ross Sea were similar over depth with a single thaumarchaeal phylotype dominating Antarctic surface waters (AASW) and deeper SW (contributing up to 80% of reads). However, this phylotype contributed less than 8% of reads in circumpolar deep waters (CDW). A related thaumarchaeon (98% identity) was almost absent in AASW, but contributed up to 30% of reads in CDW, suggesting ecological differentiation of closely related phylotypes. Significantly higher archaeal richness and evenness were observed in CDW, with Shannon indices (c. 2.5) twice as high as for AASW, and high contributions of Group II Euryarchaeota. Based on these results, we suggest that CDW is a hotspot of archaeal diversity and may play an important role in the dispersal of archaeal phylotypes to other oceanic water masses.	2011	10.1111/j.1758-2229.2011.00282.x
Lazzaro, A; Gauer, A; Zeyer, J	Field-Scale Transplantation Experiment To Investigate Structures of Soil Bacterial Communities at Pioneering Sites	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Studies on the effect of environmental conditions on plants and microorganisms are a central issue in ecology, and they require an adequate experimental setup. A strategy often applied in geobotanical studies is based on the reciprocal transplantation of plant species at different sites. We adopted a similar approach as a field-based tool to investigate the relationships of soil bacterial communities with the environment. Soil samples from two different (calcareous and siliceous) unvegetated glacier forefields were reciprocally transplanted and incubated for 15 months between 2009 and 2010. Controls containing local soils were included. The sites were characterized over time in terms of geographical (bedrock, exposition, sunlight, temperature, and precipitation) and physicochemical (texture, water content, soluble and nutrients) features. The incubating local (home) and transplanted (away) soils were monitored for changes in extractable nutrients and in the bacterial community structure, defined through terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) of the 16S rRNA gene. Concentrations of soluble ions in most samples were more significantly affected by seasons than by the transplantation. For example, NO3- showed a seasonal pattern, increasing from 1 to 3 mu g NO3- (g soil dry weight)(-1) after the melting of snow but decreasing to <1 mu g NO3- (g soil dry weight)(-1) in autumn. Seasons, and in particular strong precipitation events occurring in the summer of 2010 (200 to 300 mm of rain monthly), were also related to changes of bacterial community structures. Our results show the suitability of this approach to compare responses of bacterial communities to different environmental conditions directly in the field.	2011	10.1128/AEM.05778-11
Weisse, T; Berendonk, T; Kamjunke, N; Moser, M; Scheffel, U; Stadler, P; Weithoff, G	Significant habitat effects influence protist fitness: evidence for local adaptation from acidic mining lakes	ECOSPHERE	It is currently controversially discussed if the same freshwater microorganisms occur worldwide wherever their required habitats are realized, i.e., without any adaptation to local conditions below the species level. We performed laboratory experiments with flagellates and ciliates from three acidic mining lakes (AML, pH similar to 2.7) to investigate if similar habitats may affect similar organisms differently. Such man-made lakes provide suitable ecosystem models to test for the significance of strong habitat selection. To this end, we analyzed the growth response of three protist taxa (three strains of the phytoflagellate Chlamydomonas acidophila, two isolates of the phytoflagellate Ochromonas and two species of the ciliate genus Oxytricha) by exposing them to lake water of their origin and from the two other AML in a cross-factorial design. Population growth rates were measured as a proxy for their fitness. Results revealed significant effects of strain, lake (= habitat), and strain X habitat interaction. In the environmentally most adverse AML, all three protist taxa were locally adapted. In conclusion, our study demonstrates that (1) the same habitat may affect strains of the same species differently and that (2) similar habitats may harbor ecophysiologically different strains or species. These results contradict the everything is everywhere paradigm.	2011	10.1890/ES11-00157.1
Stearns, JC; Lynch, MDJ; Senadheera, DB; Tenenbaum, HC; Goldberg, MB; Cvitkovitch, DG; Croitoru, K; Moreno-Hagelsieb, G; Neufeld, JD	Bacterial biogeography of the human digestive tract	SCIENTIFIC REPORTS	We present bacterial biogeography as sampled from the human gastrointestinal tract of four healthy subjects. This study generated > 32 million paired-end sequences of bacterial 16S rRNA genes (V3 region) representing > 95,000 unique operational taxonomic units (OTUs; 97% similarity clusters), with > 99% Goods coverage for all samples. The highest OTU richness and phylogenetic diversity was found in the mouth samples. The microbial communities of multiple biopsy sites within the colon were highly similar within individuals and largely distinct from those in stool. Within an individual, OTU overlap among broad site definitions (mouth, stomach/duodenum, colon and stool) ranged from 32-110 OTUs, 25 of which were common to all individuals and included OTUs affiliated with Faecalibacterium prasnitzii and the TM7 phylum. This first comprehensive characterization of the abundant and rare microflora found along the healthy human digestive tract represents essential groundwork to investigate further how the human microbiome relates to health and disease.	2011	10.1038/srep00170
Flores, GE; Bates, ST; Knights, D; Lauber, CL; Stombaugh, J; Knight, R; Fierer, N	Microbial Biogeography of Public Restroom Surfaces	PLOS ONE	We spend the majority of our lives indoors where we are constantly exposed to bacteria residing on surfaces. However, the diversity of these surface-associated communities is largely unknown. We explored the biogeographical patterns exhibited by bacteria across ten surfaces within each of twelve public restrooms. Using high-throughput barcoded pyrosequencing of the 16 S rRNA gene, we identified 19 bacterial phyla across all surfaces. Most sequences belonged to four phyla: Actinobacteria, Bacteriodetes, Firmicutes and Proteobacteria. The communities clustered into three general categories: those found on surfaces associated with toilets, those on the restroom floor, and those found on surfaces routinely touched with hands. On toilet surfaces, gut-associated taxa were more prevalent, suggesting fecal contamination of these surfaces. Floor surfaces were the most diverse of all communities and contained several taxa commonly found in soils. Skin-associated bacteria, especially the Propionibacteriaceae, dominated surfaces routinely touched with our hands. Certain taxa were more common in female than in male restrooms as vagina-associated Lactobacillaceae were widely distributed in female restrooms, likely from urine contamination. Use of the SourceTracker algorithm confirmed many of our taxonomic observations as human skin was the primary source of bacteria on restroom surfaces. Overall, these results demonstrate that restroom surfaces host relatively diverse microbial communities dominated by human-associated bacteria with clear linkages between communities on or in different body sites and those communities found on restroom surfaces. More generally, this work is relevant to the public health field as we show that human-associated microbes are commonly found on restroom surfaces suggesting that bacterial pathogens could readily be transmitted between individuals by the touching of surfaces. Furthermore, we demonstrate that we can use high-throughput analyses of bacterial communities to determine sources of bacteria on indoor surfaces, an approach which could be used to track pathogen transmission and test the efficacy of hygiene practices.	2011	10.1371/journal.pone.0028132
Li, XX; LeBlanc, J; Truong, A; Vuthoori, R; Chen, SS; Lustgarten, JL; Roth, B; Allard, J; Ippoliti, A; Presley, LL; Borneman, J; Bigbee, WL; Gopalakrishnan, V; Graeber, TG; Elashoff, D; Braun, J; Goodglick, L	A Metaproteomic Approach to Study Human-Microbial Ecosystems at the Mucosal Luminal Interface	PLOS ONE	Aberrant interactions between the host and the intestinal bacteria are thought to contribute to the pathogenesis of many digestive diseases. However, studying the complex ecosystem at the human mucosal-luminal interface (MLI) is challenging and requires an integrative systems biology approach. Therefore, we developed a novel method integrating lavage sampling of the human mucosal surface, high-throughput proteomics, and a unique suite of bioinformatic and statistical analyses. Shotgun proteomic analysis of secreted proteins recovered from the MLI confirmed the presence of both human and bacterial components. To profile the MLI metaproteome, we collected 205 mucosal lavage samples from 38 healthy subjects, and subjected them to high-throughput proteomics. The spectral data were subjected to a rigorous data processing pipeline to optimize suitability for quantitation and analysis, and then were evaluated using a set of biostatistical tools. Compared to the mucosal transcriptome, the MLI metaproteome was enriched for extracellular proteins involved in response to stimulus and immune system processes. Analysis of the metaproteome revealed significant individual-related as well as anatomic region-related (biogeographic) features. Quantitative shotgun proteomics established the identity and confirmed the biogeographic association of 49 proteins (including 3 functional protein networks) demarcating the proximal and distal colon. This robust and integrated proteomic approach is thus effective for identifying functional features of the human mucosal ecosystem, and a fresh understanding of the basic biology and disease processes at the MLI.	2011	10.1371/journal.pone.0026542
Stomp, M; Huisman, J; Mittelbach, GG; Litchman, E; Klausmeier, CA	Large-scale biodiversity patterns in freshwater phytoplankton	ECOLOGY	Our planet shows striking gradients in the species richness of plants and animals, from high biodiversity in the tropics to low biodiversity in polar and high-mountain regions. Recently, similar patterns have been described for some groups of microorganisms, but the large-scale biogeographical distribution of freshwater phytoplankton diversity is still largely unknown. We examined the species diversity of freshwater phytoplankton sampled from 540 lakes and reservoirs distributed across the continental United States and found strong latitudinal, longitudinal, and altitudinal gradients in phytoplankton biodiversity, demonstrating that microorganisms can show substantial geographic variation in biodiversity. Detailed analysis using structural equation models indicated that these large-scale biodiversity gradients in freshwater phytoplankton diversity were mainly driven by local environmental factors, although there were residual direct effects of latitude, longitude, and altitude as well. Specifically, we found that phytoplankton species richness was an increasing saturating function of lake chlorophyll a concentration, increased with lake surface area and possibly increased with water temperature, resembling effects of productivity, habitat area, and temperature on diversity patterns commonly observed for macroorganisms. In turn, these local environmental factors varied along latitudinal, longitudinal, and altitudinal gradients. These results imply that changes in land use or climate that affect these local environmental factors are likely to have major impacts on large-scale biodiversity patterns of freshwater phytoplankton.	2011	
Wang, SA; Marcone, MF	The biochemistry and biological properties of the worlds most expensive underground edible mushroom: Truffles	FOOD RESEARCH INTERNATIONAL	This review is to provide an update in the recent truffle research with particular emphasis on the chemical properties ( nutritional and aromatic profile) and their potential biological activities such as antioxidant, antiviral, anti-microbial, hepatoprotective, anti-mutagenic, anti-inflammatory, anti-carcinogenic, and anti-tuberculoid. In addition, some of the diversification patterns (e.g., biogeography, cultivar, and morphology) and preservation of truffles are briefly introduced. A few snapshot summary tables are also incorporated to give further detailed guidance for each section, spanning in particular the findings in the last ten years (2000-2010). It is quite clear that further scientific studies need to pay greater attention on how to incorporate these biochemical and biological properties into the value-added truffles and truffle related products. (C) 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2011	10.1016/j.foodres.2011.06.008
Gerstein, AC; Moore, JS	Small is the new big: assessing the population structure of microorganisms	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	Microorganisms are a tremendously large and diverse group spanning multiple kingdoms, yet they have been considerably under-studied by ecologists and evolutionary biologists compared to their larger relatives. Although a few microbial species have become the stars of laboratory experiments, relatively few studies have examined microbial species in their natural habitats. As such, the question of whether microbial diversity parallels that of larger bodied species is contentious (Lachance 2004; Fenchel & Finlay 2004). It has been suggested that large population sizes, high dispersal potential and low extinction rates lead to genetically homogeneous populations of microbial species over large geographical scales-arguments that bring to mind discussions about speciation and population structure in the marine environment. In this issue of Molecular Ecology, Herrera et al. (2011) add to this debate by examining 91 isolates of the flower-living yeast Metschnikowia gruessii from southeastern Spain. Their AFLP results support both spatial structuring of genetic diversity across the region, as well as microsite-dependent diversifying selection within single flowers. This study adds to a growing body of literature suggesting that although microbes have much larger population sizes and many differ in their principal mode of reproduction (primarily clonal rather than sexual), patterns of genetic diversity and phylogenetic structure for some microbial species may be similar to that of larger species. This study highlights the need for vastly more research that specifically examines biogeographic structure in this under-utilized group of organisms.	2011	10.1111/j.1365-294X.2011.05263.x
Siddall, ME; Min, GS; Fontanella, FM; Phillips, AJ; Watson, SC	Bacterial symbiont and salivary peptide evolution in the context of leech phylogeny	PARASITOLOGY	The evolutionary history of leeches is employed as a general framework for understanding more than merely the systematics of this charismatic group of annelid worms, and serves as a basis for understanding blood-feeding related correlates ranging from the specifics of gut-associated bacterial symbionts to salivary anticoagulant peptides. A variety of medicinal leech families were examined for intraluminal crop bacterial symbionts. Species of Aeromonas and Bacteroidetes were characterized with DNA gyrase B and 16S rDNA. Bacteroidetes isolates were found to be much more phylogenetically diverse and suggested stronger evidence of phylogenetic correlation than the gammaproteobacteria. Patterns that look like co-speciation with limited taxon sampling do not in the full context of phylogeny. Bioactive compounds that are expressed as gene products, like those in leech salivary glands, have passed the test of evolutionary selection. We produced and bioinformatically mined salivary gland EST libraries across medicinal leech lineages to experimentally and statistically evaluate whether evolutionary selection on peptides can identify structure-function activities of known therapeutically relevant bioactive compounds like antithrombin, hirudin and antistasin. The combined information content of a well corroborated leech phylogeny and broad taxonomic coverage of expressed proteins leads to a rich understanding of evolution and function in leech history.	2011	10.1017/S0031182011000539
Finkel, OM; Burch, AY; Lindow, SE; Post, AF; Belkin, S	Geographical Location Determines the Population Structure in Phyllosphere Microbial Communities of a Salt-Excreting Desert Tree	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	The leaf surfaces of Tamarix, a salt-secreting desert tree, harbor a diverse community of microbial epiphytes. This ecosystem presents a unique combination of ecological characteristics and imposes a set of extreme stress conditions. The composition of the microbial community along ecological gradients was studied from analyses of microbial richness and diversity in the phyllosphere of three Tamarix species in the Mediterranean and Dead Sea regions in Israel and in two locations in the United States. Over 200,000 sequences of the 16S V6 and 18S V9 hypervariable regions revealed a diverse community, with 788 bacterial and 64 eukaryotic genera but only one archaeal genus. Both geographic location and tree species were determinants of microbial community structures, with the former being more dominant. Tree leaves of all three species in the Mediterranean region were dominated by Halomonas and Halobacteria, whereas trees from the Dead Sea area were dominated by Actinomycetales and Bacillales. Our findings demonstrate that microbial phyllosphere communities on different Tamarix species are highly similar in the same locale, whereas trees of the same species that grow in different climatic regions host distinct microbial communities.	2011	10.1128/AEM.05565-11
Mosher, JJ; Findlay, RH	Direct and Indirect Influence of Parental Bedrock on Streambed Microbial Community Structure in Forested Streams	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	A correlative study was performed to determine if variation in streambed microbial community structure in low-order forested streams can be directly or indirectly linked to the chemical nature of the parental bedrock of the environments through which the streams flow. Total microbial and photosynthetic biomass (phospholipid phosphate [PLP] and chlorophyll a), community structure (phospholipid fatty acid analysis), and physical and chemical parameters were measured in six streams, three located in sandstone and three in limestone regions of the Bankhead National Forest in northern Alabama. Although stream water flowing through the two different bedrock types differed significantly in chemical composition, there were no significant differences in total microbial and photosynthetic biomass in the sediments. In contrast, sedimentary microbial community structure differed between the bedrock types and was significantly correlated with stream water ion concentrations. A pattern of seasonal variation in microbial community structure was also observed. Further statistical analysis indicated dissolved organic matter (DOM) quality, which was previously shown to be influenced by geological variation, correlated with variation in bacterial community structure. These results indicate that the geology of underlying bedrock influences benthic microbial communities directly via changes in water chemistry and also indirectly via stream water DOM quality.	2011	10.1128/AEM.06029-11
Kivlin, SN; Hawkes, CV; Treseder, KK	Global diversity and distribution of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	Arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi form associations with most land plants and can control carbon, nitrogen, and phosphorus cycling between above- and belowground components of ecosystems. Current estimates of AM fungal distributions are mainly inferred from the individual distributions of plant biomes, and climatic factors. However, dispersal limitation, local environmental conditions,and interactions among AM fungal taxa may also determine local diversity and global distributions. We assessed the relative importance of these potential controls by collecting 14,961 DNA sequences from 111 published studies and testing for relationships between AM fungal community composition and geography, environment, and plant biomes. Our results indicated that the global species richness of AM fungi was up to six times higher than previously estimated, largely owing to high beta diversity among sampling sites. Geographic distance, soil temperature and moisture, and plant community type were each significantly related to AM fungal community structure, but explained only a small amount of the observed variance. AM fungal species also tended to be phylogenetically clustered within sites, further suggesting that habitat filtering or dispersal limitation is a driver of AM fungal community assembly. Therefore, predicted shifts in climate and plant species distributions under global change may alter AM fungal communities. Published by Elsevier Ltd.	2011	10.1016/j.soilbio.2011.07.012
Wells, GF; Park, HD; Eggleston, B; Francis, CA; Criddle, CS	Fine-scale bacterial community dynamics and the taxa-time relationship within a full-scale activated sludge bioreactor	WATER RESEARCH	In activated sludge bioreactors, aerobic heterotrophic communities efficiently remove organics, nutrients, toxic substances, and pathogens from wastewater, but the dynamics of these communities are as yet poorly understood. A macroecology metric used to quantify community shifts is the taxa-time relationship, a temporal analog of the species-area curve. To determine whether this metric can be applied to full-scale bioreactors, activated sludge samples were collected weekly over a one-year period at a local municipal wastewater treatment plant. Bacterial community dynamics were evaluated by monitoring 16S rRNA genes using Terminal Restriction Fragment Length Polymorphism (T-RFLP), corroborated by clone libraries. Observed taxa richness increased with time according to a power law model, as predicted by macroecological theory, with a power law exponent of w = 0.209. The results reveal strong long-term temporal dynamics during a period of stable performance (BOD removal and nitrification). Community dynamics followed a gradual succession away from initial conditions rather than periodicity around a mean equilibrium, with greater within-month then among-month community similarities. Changes in community structure were significantly associated via multivariate statistical analyses with dissolved oxygen, temperature, influent silver, biomass (MLSS), flow rate, and influent nitrite, cadmium and chromium concentrations. Overall, our results suggest patterns of bacterial community dynamics likely regulated in part by operational parameters and provide evidence that the taxa-time relationship may be a fundamental ecological pattern in macro- and microbial systems. (C) 2011. Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2011	10.1016/j.watres.2011.08.006
Charlson, ES; Bittinger, K; Haas, AR; Fitzgerald, AS; Frank, I; Yadav, A; Bushman, FD; Collman, RG	Topographical Continuity of Bacterial Populations in the Healthy Human Respiratory Tract	AMERICAN JOURNAL OF RESPIRATORY AND CRITICAL CARE MEDICINE	Rationale: Defining the biogeography of bacterial populations in human body habitats is a high priority for understanding microbial-host relationships in health and disease. The healthy lung was traditionally considered sterile, but this notion has been challenged by emerging molecular approaches that enable comprehensive examination of microbial communities. However, studies of the lung are challenging due to difficulties in working with low biomass samples. Objectives: Our goal was to use molecular methods to define the bacterial microbiota present in the lungs of healthy individuals and assess its relationship to upper airway populations. Methods: We sampled respiratory flora intensively at multiple sites in six healthy individuals. The upper tract was sampled by oral wash and oro-/nasopharyngeal swabs. Two bronchoscopes were used to collect samples up to the glottis, followed by serial bronchoalveolar lavage and lower airway protected brush. Bacterial abundance and composition were analyzed by 16S rDNA Q-PCR and deep sequencing. Measurements and Main Results: Bacterial communities from the lung displayed composition indistinguishable from the upper airways, but were 2 to 4 logs lower in biomass. Lung-specific sequences were rare and not shared among individuals. There was no unique lung microbiome. Conclusions: In contrast to other organ systems, the respiratory tract harbors a homogenous microbiota that decreases in biomass from upper to lower tract. The healthy lung does not contain a consistent distinct microbiome, but instead contains low levels of bacterial sequences largely indistinguishable from upper respiratory flora. These findings establish baseline data for healthy subjects and sampling approaches for sequence-based analysis of diseases.	2011	10.1164/rccm.201104-0655OC
Lee, S; Sung, J; Lee, J; Ko, G	Comparison of the Gut Microbiotas of Healthy Adult Twins Living in South Korea and the United States	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	We compared the composition of the fecal microbiotas of Korean and U.S. adult twins. Our data indicated that the gut microbiota shows some signature of biogeography, potentially mediated by differences in diet and/or other environmental factors; however, these regional differences may be masked by other phenotypic variations, such as obesity.	2011	10.1128/AEM.05490-11
Heger, TJ; Booth, RK; Sullivan, ME; Wilkinson, DM; Warner, BG; Asada, T; Mazei, Y; Meisterfeld, R; Mitchell, EAD	Rediscovery of Nebela ansata (Amoebozoa: Arcellinida) in eastern North America: biogeographical implications	JOURNAL OF BIOGEOGRAPHY	Aim The question whether free-living protists are generally cosmopolitan is currently a matter of debate. In this study we investigate the geographical distribution of a distinctive testate amoeba species, Nebela ansata, and use our data to assess the potential for highly restricted distribution patterns in some protist species. Location Global. Methods We analysed (1) 3400 testate amoeba publications from North America and other continents, (2) unpublished slides of the Penard Collection of the Natural History Museum, London, UK, and (3) 104 Sphagnum samples from eastern North America. Non-metric multidimensional scaling (NMDS) was used to visualize the similarities in testate amoeba community composition among 1012 North American samples, including two communities that contained N. ansata. Results We rediscovered N. ansata at a site in New Jersey located close to its type locality, and in Nova Scotia. We also report the existence of an apparently unpublished museum specimen originally collected from New Jersey. Our extensive literature survey confirmed the presence of this species only in the temperate part of eastern North America. The NMDS revealed that communities with N. ansata were less similar to each other than to communities from other parts of North America, suggesting that favourable habitats for N. ansata occur in other Sphagnum-dominated peatlands, a habitat type that has been extensively sampled in North America and elsewhere. Main conclusions These data provide an unusually convincing case of a free-living microorganism with a very limited distribution range in the temperate part of eastern North America. The remarkably restricted distribution of N. ansata highlights the extent of our ignorance about the natural history of free-living microorganisms, and raises questions about the lack of attention to microbial diversity in conservation biology.	2011	10.1111/j.1365-2699.2011.02528.x
Pla-Rabes, S; Flower, RJ; Shilland, EM; Kreiser, AM	Assessing microbial diversity using recent lake sediments and estimations of spatio-temporal diversity	JOURNAL OF BIOGEOGRAPHY	Aim Recent papers have used large palaeolimnological datasets to reveal the biodiversity patterns of aquatic microorganisms. However, scant attention has been paid to the influence of time on these patterns. Where lake surficial sediment samples are used as integrals of diversity, the time interval of each sample varies according to differences in sediment accumulation rates. This paper aims to test the reliability of using lake surface sediments to measure and to compare microbial diversity when the potential influences of the species-time relationships are taken into account. Location Alpine lakes in Europe. Methods We analysed microorganism (siliceous microalgae) assemblages in three European Alpine lakes using short sediment cores (Pb-210-dated) and annual sediment trap samples from 12 UK lakes. The same number of individuals was pooled for each sample 500 times to avoid sampling effort effects and to standardize species diversity estimation. The influence of time on the diversity score was assessed by simulating an increase of time span for surface sediment samples by cumulatively adding in successive sediment core samples (from the most recent to the oldest). We used species richness (S) and the exponential of the bias-corrected Shannon entropy index (exp(Hb-c)) to estimate diversity. Results Increasing the time interval represented by a surficial sediment sample did not affect the diversity results. The estimation of diversity was similar for cumulative and non-cumulative samples. Diversity estimation was only altered in lakes experiencing high community turnover due to strong environmental forcing during the time period spanned by the cumulative sample. Main conclusions The use of surface lake sediments is suitable for estimating the average site diversity of free-living microorganisms. Diversity is integrated in a single sample and species assemblage composition is derived from microbial communities living in distinct lake microhabitats. Species remains, accumulated in a single sample over several years of environmental variability, represent a diversity integral that captures a spatio-temporal component equivalent to the gamma-diversity measure.	2011	10.1111/j.1365-2699.2011.02530.x
Schiaffino, MR; Unrein, F; Gasol, JM; Massana, R; Balague, V; Izaguirre, I	Bacterial community structure in a latitudinal gradient of lakes: the roles of spatial versus environmental factors	FRESHWATER BIOLOGY	1. We analysed the latitudinal variation of bacterioplankton in 45 freshwater environments (lakes, shallow lakes and ponds) across a transect of more than 2100 km stretching from Argentinean Patagonia (45 degrees S) to Maritime Antarctica (63 degrees S), to determine the factors that mainly determine bacterioplankton community structure. 2. Bacterioplankton community composition (BCC) was assessed by a fingerprinting method (denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis) followed by band sequencing, whereas the abundances of total bacteria and picocyanobacteria were estimated by epifluorescence microscopy. 3. Bacterioplankton community composition was controlled by a combination of spatial (latitude and longitude) and environmental [e. g. phosphate, light diffuse attenuation coefficient (K-d) and dissolved organic carbon] factors. Total bacterioplankton abundance declined with latitude. A multiple regression analysis showed that phosphate, Kd and latitude had significant effects on total bacterioplankton abundance. 4. Of 76 operational taxonomic units identified in the studied lakes, 45 were shared between Patagonian and Antarctic water bodies, 28 were present only in Patagonian lakes and three were restricted to the Antarctic lakes. Significant differences were found in BCC between Patagonia and Antarctica. Among the sequences, 54% were similar (>97% sequence similarity) to others reported from cold habitats elsewhere on the planet (glaciers, high mountain lakes, Arctic). 5. Our results provide new evidence that supports the hypotheses of biogeographic patterns of bacterial assemblages and suggest that both spatial and environmental factors control bacterioplankton community structure.	2011	10.1111/j.1365-2427.2011.02628.x
Remold, SK; Brown, CK; Farris, JE; Hundley, TC; Perpich, JA; Purdy, ME	Differential Habitat Use and Niche Partitioning by Pseudomonas Species in Human Homes	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Many species of Pseudomonas have the ability to use a variety of resources and habitats, and as a result Pseudomonas are often characterized as having broad fundamental niches. We questioned whether actual habitat use by Pseudomonas species is equally broad. To do this, we sampled extensively to describe the biogeography of Pseudomonas within the human home, which presents a wide variety of habitats for microbes that live in close proximity to humans but are not part of the human flora, and for microbes that are opportunistic pathogens, such as Pseudomonas aeruginosa. From 960 samples taken in 20 homes, we obtained 163 Pseudomonas isolates. The most prevalent based on identification using the SepsiTest BLAST analysis of 16S rRNA (http://www.sepsitest-blast.de) were Pseudomonas monteilii (42 isolates), Pseudomonas plecoglossicida, Pseudomonas fulva, and P. aeruginosa (approximately 25 each). Of these, all but P. fulva differed in recovery rates among evaluated habitat types (drains, soils, water, internal vertebrate sites, vertebrate skin, inanimate surfaces, and garbage/compost) and all four species also differed in recovery rates among subcategories of habitat types (e.g., types of soils or drains). We also found that at both levels of habitat resolution, each of these six most common species (the four above plus Pseudomonas putida and Pseudomonas oryzihabitans) were over- or under-represented in some habitats relative to their contributions to the total Pseudomonas collected across all habitats. This pattern is consistent with niche partitioning. These results suggest that, whereas Pseudomonas are often characterized as generalists with broad fundamental niches, these species in fact have more restricted realized niches. Furthermore, niche partitioning driven by competition among Pseudomonas species may be contributing to the observed variability in habitat use by Pseudomonas in this system.	2011	10.1007/s00248-011-9844-5
Rosario, K; Breitbart, M	Exploring the viral world through metagenomics	CURRENT OPINION IN VIROLOGY	Viral metagenomics, or shotgun sequencing of purified viral particles, has revolutionized the field of environmental virology by allowing the exploration of viral communities in a variety of sample types throughout the biosphere. The introduction of viral metagenomics has demonstrated that dominant viruses in environmental communities are not well-represented by the cultured viruses in existing sequence databases. Viral metagenomic studies have provided insights into viral ecology by elucidating the genetic potential, community structure, and biogeography of environmental viruses. In addition, viral metagenomics has expanded current knowledge of virus-host interactions by uncovering genes that may allow viruses to manipulate their hosts in unexpected ways. The intrinsic potential for virus discovery through viral metagenomics can help advance a wide array of disciplines including evolutionary biology, pathogen surveillance, and biotechnology.	2011	10.1016/j.coviro.2011.06.004
Zinger, L; Amaral-Zettler, LA; Fuhrman, JA; Horner-Devine, MC; Huse, SM; Welch, DBM; Martiny, JBH; Sogin, M; Boetius, A; Ramette, A	Global Patterns of Bacterial Beta-Diversity in Seafloor and Seawater Ecosystems	PLOS ONE	Background: Marine microbial communities have been essential contributors to global biomass, nutrient cycling, and biodiversity since the early history of Earth, but so far their community distribution patterns remain unknown in most marine ecosystems. Methodology/Principal Findings: The synthesis of 9.6 million bacterial V6-rRNA amplicons for 509 samples that span the global oceans surface to the deep-sea floor shows that pelagic and benthic communities greatly differ, at all taxonomic levels, and share <10% bacterial types defined at 3% sequence similarity level. Surface and deep water, coastal and open ocean, and anoxic and oxic ecosystems host distinct communities that reflect productivity, land influences and other environmental constraints such as oxygen availability. The high variability of bacterial community composition specific to vent and coastal ecosystems reflects the heterogeneity and dynamic nature of these habitats. Both pelagic and benthic bacterial community distributions correlate with surface water productivity, reflecting the coupling between both realms by particle export. Also, differences in physical mixing may play a fundamental role in the distribution patterns of marine bacteria, as benthic communities showed a higher dissimilarity with increasing distance than pelagic communities. Conclusions/Significance: This first synthesis of global bacterial distribution across different ecosystems of the Worlds oceans shows remarkable horizontal and vertical large-scale patterns in bacterial communities. This opens interesting perspectives for the definition of biogeographical biomes for bacteria of ocean waters and the seabed.	2011	10.1371/journal.pone.0024570
Zhang, YM; Li, Y; Chen, WF; Wang, ET; Tian, CF; Li, QQ; Zhang, YZ; Sui, XH; Chen, WX	Biodiversity and Biogeography of Rhizobia Associated with Soybean Plants Grown in the North China Plain	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	As the putative center of origin for soybean and the second largest region of soybean production in China, the North China Plain covers temperate and subtropical regions with diverse soil characteristics. However, the soybean rhizobia in this plain have not been sufficiently studied. To investigate the biodiversity and biogeography of soybean rhizobia in this plain, a total of 309 isolates of symbiotic bacteria from the soybean nodules collected from 16 sampling sites were studied by molecular characterization. These isolates were classified into 10 genospecies belonging to the genera Sinorhizobium and Bradyrhizobium, including four novel groups, with S. fredii (68.28%) as the dominant group. The phylogeny of symbiotic genes nodC and nifH defined four lineages among the isolates associated with Sinorhizobium fredii, Bradyrhizobium elkanii, B. japonicum, and B. yuanmingense, demonstrating the different origins of symbiotic genes and their coevolution with the chromosome. The possible lateral transfer of symbiotic genes was detected in several cases. The association between soil factors (available N, P, and K and pH) and the distribution of genospecies suggest clear biogeographic patterns: Sinorhizobium spp. were superdominant in sampling sites with alkaline-saline soils, while Bradyrhizobium spp. were more abundant in neutral soils. This study clarified the biodiversity and biogeography of soybean rhizobia in the North China Plain.	2011	10.1128/AEM.00542-11
Bowers, RM; Sullivan, AP; Costello, EK; Collett, JL; Knight, R; Fierer, N	Sources of Bacteria in Outdoor Air across Cities in the Midwestern United States	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Bacteria are abundant in the atmosphere, where they often represent a major portion of the organic aerosols. Potential pathogens of plants and livestock are commonly dispersed through the atmosphere, and airborne bacteria can have important effects on human health as pathogens or triggers of allergic asthma and seasonal allergies. Despite their importance, the diversity and biogeography of airborne microorganisms remain poorly understood. We used high-throughput pyrosequencing to analyze bacterial communities present in the aerosol fraction containing fine particulate matter of <= 2.5 mu m from 96 near-surface atmospheric samples collected from cities throughout the midwestern United States and found that the communities are surprisingly diverse and strongly affected by the season. We also directly compared the airborne communities to those found in hundreds of samples representing potential source environments. We show that, in addition to the more predictable sources (soils and leaf surfaces), fecal material, most likely dog feces, often represents an unexpected source of bacteria in the atmosphere at more urbanized locations during the winter. Airborne bacteria are clearly an important, but understudied, component of air quality that needs to be better integrated into efforts to measure and model pollutants in the atmosphere.	2011	10.1128/AEM.05498-11
DeBruyn, JM; Nixon, LT; Fawaz, MN; Johnson, AM; Radosevich, M	Global Biogeography and Quantitative Seasonal Dynamics of Gemmatimonadetes in Soil	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Bacteria belonging to phylum Gemmatimonadetes comprise approximately 2% of soil bacterial communities. However, little is known of their ecology due to a lack of cultured representation. Here we present evidence from biogeographical analyses and seasonal quantification of Gemmatimonadetes in soils, which suggests an adaptation to low soil moisture.	2011	10.1128/AEM.05005-11
Douglas, TE; Kronforst, MR; Queller, DC; Strassmann, JE	Genetic diversity in the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum: Population differentiation and cryptic species	MOLECULAR PHYLOGENETICS AND EVOLUTION	The social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum is a commonly used model organism for the study of social evolution, multicellularity, and cell biology. But the boundaries and structure of the species have not been explored. The lack of morphological traits to distinguish D. discoideum makes even knowing whether a given clone is D. discoideum a challenge. We address this with a phylogeny of a widespread collection of clones from a range of locations and including clones identified previously as potential cryptic species. We sequenced portions of nuclear ribosomal DNA and mitochondrial DNA, analyzing approximately 5500 and 2500 base pairs from the two regions respectively. We compared these sequences to known reference sequences for both D. discoideum and other closely related Dictyostelium species to create Bayesian and neighbor-joining phylogenetic trees representing the evolutionary relationships among the clones. We identified 51 unique D. discoideum concatenated sequences based on the combined mitochondrial and ribosomal sequence data. We also identified four unique D. citrinum concatenated sequences, three of which were previously classified as D. discoideum clones. Our analysis of the data revealed that all D. discoideum clones form a monophyletic group, but there are several well-supported subclades and pronounced genetic differentiation among locations (F-ST = 0.242, P = 0.011), suggesting the presence of geographic or other barriers between populations. Our results reveal the need for further investigation into potential tropical cryptic species. (C) 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.	2011	10.1016/j.ympev.2011.05.007
Darcy, JL; Lynch, RC; King, AJ; Robeson, MS; Schmidt, SK	Global Distribution of Polaromonas Phylotypes - Evidence for a Highly Successful Dispersal Capacity	PLOS ONE	Bacteria from the genus Polaromonas are dominant phylotypes in clone libraries and culture collections from polar and high-elevation environments. Although Polaromonas has been found on six continents, we do not know if the same phylotypes exist in all locations or if they exhibit genetic isolation by distance patterns. To examine their biogeographic distribution, we analyzed all available, long-read 16S rRNA gene sequences of Polaromonas phylotypes from glacial and periglacial environments across the globe. Using genetic isolation by geographic distance analyses, including Mantel tests and Mantel correlograms, we found that Polaromonas phylotypes are globally distributed showing weak isolation by distance patterns at global scales. More focused analyses using discrete, equally sampled distances classes, revealed that only two distance classes (out of 12 total) showed significant spatial structuring. Overall, our analyses show that most Polaromonas phylotypes are truly globally distributed, but that some, as yet unknown, environmental variable may be selecting for unique phylotypes at a minority of our global sites. Analyses of aerobiological and genomic data suggest that Polaromonas phylotypes are globally distributed as dormant cells through high-elevation air currents; Polaromonas phylotypes are common in air and snow samples from high altitudes, and a glacial-ice metagenome and the two sequenced Polaromonas genomes contain the gene hipA, suggesting that Polaromonas can form dormant cells.	2011	10.1371/journal.pone.0023742
Fontaneto, D; Westberg, M; Hortal, J	Evidence of Weak Habitat Specialisation in Microscopic Animals	PLOS ONE	Macroecology and biogeography of microscopic organisms (any living organism smaller than 2 mm) are quickly developing into fruitful research areas. Microscopic organisms also offer the potential for testing predictions and models derived from observations on larger organisms due to the feasibility of performing lab and mesocosm experiments. However, more empirical knowledge on the similarities and differences between micro- and macro-organisms is needed to ascertain how much of the results obtained from the former can be generalised to the latter. One potential misconception, based mostly on anedoctal evidence rather than explicit tests, is that microscopic organisms may have wider ecological tolerance and a lower degree of habitat specialisation than large organisms. Here we explicitly test this hypothesis within the framework of metacommunity theory, by studying host specificify in the assemblages of bdelloid rotifers (animals about 350 mm in body length) living in different species of lichens in Sweden. Using several regression-based and ANOVA analyses and controlling for both spatial structure and the kind of substrate the lichen grow over (bark vs rock), we found evidence of significant but weak species-specific associations between bdelloids and lichens, a wide overlap in species composition between lichens, and wide ecological tolerance for most bdelloid species. This confirms that microscopic organisms such as bdelloids have a lower degree of habitat specialisation than larger organisms, although this happens in a complex scenario of ecological processes, where source-sink dynamics and geographic distances seem to have no effect on species composition at the analysed scale.	2011	10.1371/journal.pone.0023969
Agatha, S	Global Diversity of Aloricate Oligotrichea (Protista, Ciliophora, Spirotricha) in Marine and Brackish Sea Water	PLOS ONE	Oligotrichids and choreotrichids are ciliate taxa contributing to the multi-step microbial food web and episodically dominating the marine microzooplankton. The global diversity and distribution of aloricate Oligotrichea are unknown. Here, the geographic ranges of the 141 accepted species and their synonyms in marine and brackish sea water are analyzed, using hundreds of taxonomical and ecological studies; the quality of the records is simultaneously evaluated. The aloricate Oligotrichea match the moderate endemicity model, i.e., the majority (94) of morphospecies has a wide, occasionally cosmopolitan distribution, while 47 morphospecies show biogeographic patterns: they are restricted to single geographic regions and probably include 12 endemic morphospecies. These endemics are found in the Antarctic, North Pacific, and Black Sea, whereas the flagship species Strombidinopsis cercionis is confined to the Caribbean Sea. Concerning genera, again several geographic patterns are recognizable. The species richness is distinctly lower in the southern hemisphere than in the northern, ranging from nine morphospecies in the South Pacific to 95 in the North Atlantic; however, this pattern is probably caused by undersampling. Since the loss of species might affect higher trophical levels substantially, the aloricate Oligotrichea should not any longer be ignored in conservation issues. The ecophysiological diversity is considerably larger than the morphological, and even tops the richness of SSrRNA and ITS haplotypes, indicating that probably more than 83-89% of the diversity in aloricate Oligotrichea are unknown. The huge challenge to discover all these species can only be managed by combining the expertises of morphological taxonomists, molecular biologists, ecologists, and physiologists.	2011	10.1371/journal.pone.0022466
German, CR; Ramirez-Llodra, E; Baker, MC; Tyler, PA	Deep-Water Chemosynthetic Ecosystem Research during the Census of Marine Life Decade and Beyond: A Proposed Deep-Ocean Road Map	PLOS ONE	The ChEss project of the Census of Marine Life (2002-2010) helped foster internationally-coordinated studies worldwide focusing on exploration for, and characterization of new deep-sea chemosynthetic ecosystem sites. This work has advanced our understanding of the nature and factors controlling the biogeography and biodiversity of these ecosystems in four geographic locations: the Atlantic Equatorial Belt (AEB), the New Zealand region, the Arctic and Antarctic and the SE Pacific off Chile. In the AEB, major discoveries include hydrothermal seeps on the Costa Rica margin, deepest vents found on the Mid-Cayman Rise and the hottest vents found on the Southern Mid-Atlantic Ridge. It was also shown that the major fracture zones on the MAR do not create barriers for the dispersal but may act as trans-Atlantic conduits for larvae. In New Zealand, investigations of a newly found large cold-seep area suggest that this region may be a new biogeographic province. In the Arctic, the newly discovered sites on the Mohns Ridge (71 degrees N) showed extensive mats of sulfur-oxidisng bacteria, but only one gastropod potentially bears chemosynthetic symbionts, while cold seeps on the Haakon Mossby Mud Volcano (72 degrees N) are dominated by siboglinid worms. In the Antarctic region, the first hydrothermal vents south of the Polar Front were located and biological results indicate that they may represent a new biogeographic province. The recent exploration of the South Pacific region has provided evidence for a sediment hosted hydrothermal source near a methane-rich cold-seep area. Based on our 8 years of investigations of deep-water chemosynthetic ecosystems worldwide, we suggest highest priorities for future research: (i) continued exploration of the deep-ocean ridge-crest; (ii) increased focus on anthropogenic impacts; (iii) concerted effort to coordinate a major investigation of the deep South Pacific Ocean - the largest contiguous habitat for life within Earths biosphere, but also the worlds least investigated deep-ocean basin.	2011	10.1371/journal.pone.0023259
Perfumo, A; Cockell, C; Elsaesser, A; Marchant, R; Kminek, G	Microbial diversity in Calamita ferromagnetic sand	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY REPORTS	Calamita is a black ferromagnetic sand from a marine iron ore on Elba Island (Italy). Its total iron content is approximately 80% and a major fraction (63% w/w) has magnetic properties. Desiccation, ultraviolet irradiation and the high temperature induced by the thermal conductivity of iron make Calamita sand an extreme biotope. We report, for the first time, the geomicrobiological characterization of Calamita sand, which showed a low bacterial biodiversity as determined by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis and 16S rRNA gene clone library analysis. We retrieved sequences closely affiliated with uncultured bacteria inhabiting the harshest deserts on Earth. Radiation-and desiccation-tolerant bacteria from the phyla Proteobacteria, Actinobacteria and Deinococcus-Thermus dominated the community. Heavy metal-resistant organisms, for example Variovorax sp. were also abundant. Sequences of organisms with an inferred metabolism based on lithotrophic iron oxidation were detected. The sands also contained thermophilic bacilli, which were cultivated at 60 degrees C. These data provided important insights also into the biogeographical distribution of these organisms in the Mediterranean region. In summary, this study on Calamita helps to expand our knowledge of the biodiversity in extreme, iron-rich, environments.	2011	10.1111/j.1758-2229.2011.00244.x
Edgcomb, V; Orsi, W; Bunge, J; Jeon, S; Christen, R; Leslin, C; Holder, M; Taylor, GT; Suarez, P; Varela, R; Epstein, S	Protistan microbial observatory in the Cariaco Basin, Caribbean. I. Pyrosequencing vs Sanger insights into species richness	ISME JOURNAL	Microbial diversity and distribution are topics of intensive research. In two companion papers in this issue, we describe the results of the Cariaco Microbial Observatory (Caribbean Sea, Venezuela). The Basin contains the largest body of marine anoxic water, and presents an opportunity to study protistan communities across biogeochemical gradients. In the first paper, we survey 18S ribosomal RNA (rRNA) gene sequence diversity using both Sanger-and pyrosequencing-based approaches, employing multiple PCR primers, and state-of-the-art statistical analyses to estimate microbial richness missed by the survey. Sampling the Basin at three stations, in two seasons, and at four depths with distinct biogeochemical regimes, we obtained the largest, and arguably the least biased collection of over 6000 nearly full-length protistan rRNA gene sequences from a given oceanographic regime to date, and over 80 000 pyrosequencing tags. These represent all major and many minor protistan taxa, at frequencies globally similar between the two sequence collections. This large data set provided, via the recently developed parametric modeling, the first statistically sound prediction of the total size of protistan richness in a large and varied environment, such as the Cariaco Basin: over 36 000 species, defined as almost full-length 18S rRNA gene sequence clusters sharing over 99% sequence homology. This richness is a small fraction of the grand total of known protists (over 100 000-500 000 species), suggesting a degree of protistan endemism. The ISME Journal (2011) 5, 1344-1356; doi: 10.1038/ismej.2011.6; published online 10 March 2011	2011	10.1038/ismej.2011.6
Lahr, DJG; Souza, MBGE	Occurrence of the lobose testate amoeba Pseudonebela africana (Amoebozoa, Arcellinida) in the Brazilian cerrado	EUROPEAN JOURNAL OF PROTISTOLOGY	Flagship species are defined as microbial eukaryote species with characteristic morphologies and restricted geographic distributions. These are proposed as ideal systems to elucidate patterns of geographical distribution in microbial eukaryotes. Here we present new records of the putative flagship species Pseudonebela africana, a lobose testate amoeba (Arcellinida) characterized by a cross or clover-shaped aperture and geographic distribution previously believed to be restricted to Africa. We have sampled P africana from 5 separate ponds in the Central and Southwest Brazillian cerrado, and characterized individuals both by light and electron microscopy. We provide a brief description to facilitate further studies on this poorly understood taxon, and show that light microscopy is sufficient for identification, an important feature for ecological and biogeographical studies. (C) 2011 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.	2011	10.1016/j.ejop.2011.02.004
Gramain, A; Diaz, GC; Demergasso, C; Lowenstein, TK; McGenity, TJ	Archaeal diversity along a subterranean salt core from the Salar Grande (Chile)	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	The Salar Grande in the Coastal Range of Northern Chile is a fossil evaporitic basin filled with almost pure halite (95% NaCl average). It is assumed that the basin has not received input of brines since the Pliocene (5.3 to 1.8 million years). Below 1 m the halite has remained undissolved since this time, whereas the upper layer has been dissolved and recrystallized by dripping fogs and occasional rainfall. We compared the archaeal community at different depths using both nested PCR and cultivation. The upper 10 cm of halite crust contained diverse haloarchaeal species, including several from new genera, but their provenance is unknown. For samples deeper in the core, a new and rigorous procedure for chemically sterilizing the surface of single halite crystals was developed. These halite crystals contained only species of the genus Halobacterium (Hbt.). Halobacterium salinarum-like sequences were detected by PCR, and evidence that they were from ancient DNA include: comparison with numerous negative controls; detection of 16S rRNA sequence differences in non-conserved regions, indicating genuine evolutionary mutations rather than PCR-cloning artefacts; independent isolation of Hbt. salinarum from ancient halite; and diverse mechanisms possessed by this species for minimizing radiation damage and thus enhancing its potential for long-term survival. Haloarchaea related to Hbt. noricense were obtained from enrichment cultures from similar to 0.4 and 15.4 m depth. We investigated Hbt. noricense strain A1 and found that when trapped inside halite crystals its recovery was as rapid after 27 months of entombment as at day 0, faring much better than other extreme halophiles. A biogeographical investigation showed that Hbt. noricense-like organisms were: commonly found in surface-sterilized ancient halite, associated with salt mines, in halite crusts, and, despite a much more intense search, only rarely detected in surface environments. We conclude that some Halobacterium species are specialists at long-term survival in halite.	2011	10.1111/j.1462-2920.2011.02435.x
Flores, GE; Campbell, JH; Kirshtein, JD; Meneghin, J; Podar, M; Steinberg, JI; Seewald, JS; Tivey, MK; Voytek, MA; Yang, ZK; Reysenbach, AL	Microbial community structure of hydrothermal deposits from geochemically different vent fields along the Mid-Atlantic Ridge	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	To evaluate the effects of local fluid geochemistry on microbial communities associated with active hydrothermal vent deposits, we examined the archaeal and bacterial communities of 12 samples collected from two very different vent fields: the basalt-hosted Lucky Strike (37 degrees 17N, 32 degrees 16.3W, depth 1600-1750 m) and the ultramafic-hosted Rainbow (36 degrees 13N, 33 degrees 54.1W, depth 2270-2330 m) vent fields along the Mid-Atlantic Ridge (MAR). Using multiplexed barcoded pyrosequencing of the variable region 4 (V4) of the 16S rRNA genes, we show statistically significant differences between the archaeal and bacterial communities associated with the different vent fields. Quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) assays of the functional gene diagnostic for methanogenesis (mcrA), as well as geochemical modelling to predict pore fluid chemistries within the deposits, support the pyrosequencing observations. Collectively, these results show that the less reduced, hydrogen-poor fluids at Lucky Strike limit colonization by strict anaerobes such as methanogens, and allow for hyperthermophilic microaerophiles, like Aeropyrum. In contrast, the hydrogen-rich reducing vent fluids at the ultramafic-influenced Rainbow vent field support the prevalence of methanogens and other hydrogen-oxidizing thermophiles at this site. These results demonstrate that biogeographical patterns of hydrothermal vent microorganisms are shaped in part by large scale geological and geochemical processes.	2011	10.1111/j.1462-2920.2011.02463.x
Golyshina, OV	Environmental, Biogeographic, and Biochemical Patterns of Archaea of the Family Ferroplasmaceae	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	About 10 years ago, a new family of cell wall-deficient, iron-oxidizing archaea, Ferroplasmaceae, within the large archaeal phylum Euryarchaeota, was described. In this minireview, I summarize the research progress achieved since then and report on the current status of taxonomy, biogeography, physiological diversity, biochemistry, and other research areas involving this exciting group of acidophilic archaea.	2011	10.1128/AEM.00726-11
McAllister, SM; Davis, RE; McBeth, JM; Tebo, BM; Emerson, D; Moyer, CL	Biodiversity and Emerging Biogeography of the Neutrophilic Iron-Oxidizing Zetaproteobacteria	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Members of the neutrophilic iron-oxidizing candidate class Zetaproteobacteria have predominantly been found at sites of microbially mediated iron oxidation in marine environments around the Pacific Ocean. Eighty-four full-length (>1,400-bp) and 48 partial-length Zetaproteobacteria small-subunit (SSU) rRNA gene sequences from five novel clone libraries, one novel Zetaproteobacteria isolate, and the GenBank database were analyzed to assess the biodiversity of this burgeoning class of the Proteobacteria and to investigate its biogeography between three major sampling regions in the Pacific Ocean: Loihi Seamount, the Southern Mariana Trough, and the Tonga Arc. Sequences were grouped into operational taxonomic units (OTUs) on the basis of a 97% minimum similarity. Of the 28 OTUs detected, 13 were found to be endemic to one of the three main sampling regions and 2 were ubiquitous throughout the Pacific Ocean. Additionally, two deeply rooted OTUs that potentially dominate communities of iron oxidizers originating in the deep subsurface were identified. Spatial autocorrelation analysis and analysis of molecular variance (AMOVA) showed that geographic distance played a significant role in the distribution of Zetaproteobacteria biodiversity, whereas environmental parameters, such as temperature, pH, or total Fe concentration, did not have a significant effect. These results, detected using the coarse resolution of the SSU rRNA gene, indicate that the Zetaproteobacteria have a strong biogeographic signal.	2011	10.1128/AEM.00533-11
Fortunato, CS; Crump, BC	Bacterioplankton Community Variation Across River to Ocean Environmental Gradients	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Coastal zones encompass a complex spectrum of environmental gradients that each impact the composition of bacterioplankton communities. Few studies have attempted to address these gradients comprehensively. We generated a synoptic, 16S rRNA gene-based bacterioplankton community profile of a coastal zone by applying the fingerprinting technique denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis to water samples collected from the Columbia River, estuary, and plume, and along coastal transects covering 360 km of the Oregon and Washington coasts and extending to the deep ocean (> 2,000 m). Communities were found to cluster into five distinct groups based on location in the system (ANOSIM, p < 0.003): estuary, plume, epipelagic, shelf bottom (depth < 150 m), and slope bottom (depth > 650 m). Across all environments, abiotic factors (salinity, temperature, depth) explained most of the community variability (rho = 0.734). But within each coastal environment, biotic factors explained most of the variability. Thus, structuring physical factors in coastal zones, such as salinity and temperature, define the boundaries of many distinct microbial habitats, but within these habitats variability in microbial communities is explained by biological gradients in primary and secondary productivity.	2011	10.1007/s00248-011-9805-z
Belnap, CP; Pan, C; Denef, VJ; Samatova, NF; Hettich, RL; Banfield, JF	Quantitative proteomic analyses of the response of acidophilic microbial communities to different pH conditions	ISME JOURNAL	Extensive genomic characterization of multi-species acid mine drainage microbial consortia combined with laboratory cultivation has enabled the application of quantitative proteomic analyses at the community level. In this study, quantitative proteomic comparisons were used to functionally characterize laboratory-cultivated acidophilic communities sustained in pH 1.45 or 0.85 conditions. The distributions of all proteins identified for individual organisms indicated biases for either high or low pH, and suggests pH-specific niche partitioning for low abundance bacteria and archaea. Although the proteome of the dominant bacterium, Leptospirillum group II, was largely unaffected by pH treatments, analysis of functional categories indicated proteins involved in amino acid and nucleotide metabolism, as well as cell membrane/envelope biogenesis were overrepresented at high pH. Comparison of specific protein abundances indicates higher pH conditions favor Leptospirillum group III, whereas low pH conditions promote the growth of certain archaea. Thus, quantitative proteomic comparisons revealed distinct differences in community composition and metabolic function of individual organisms during different pH treatments. Proteomic analysis revealed other aspects of community function. Different numbers of phage proteins were identified across biological replicates, indicating stochastic spatial heterogeneity of phage outbreaks. Additionally, proteomic data were used to identify a previously unknown genotypic variant of Leptospirillum group II, an indication of selection for a specific Leptospirillum group II population in laboratory communities. Our results confirm the importance of pH and related geochemical factors in fine-tuning acidophilic microbial community structure and function at the species and strain level, and demonstrate the broad utility of proteomics in laboratory community studies. The ISME Journal (2011) 5, 1152-1161; doi:10.1038/ismej.2010.200; published online 13 January 2011 Subject Category: integrated genomics and post-genomics approaches in microbial ecology	2011	10.1038/ismej.2010.200
Fru, EC	Microbial evolution of sulphate reduction when lateral gene transfer is geographically restricted	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SYSTEMATIC AND EVOLUTIONARY MICROBIOLOGY	Lateral gene transfer (LGT) is an important mechanism by which micro-organisms acquire new functions. This process has been suggested to be central to prokaryotic evolution in various environments. However, the influence of geographical constraints on the evolution of laterally acquired genes in microbial metabolic evolution is not yet well understood. In this study, the influence of geographical isolation on the evolution of laterally acquired dissimilatory sulphite reductase (dsr) gene sequences in the sulphate-reducing micro-organisms (SRM) was investigated. Sequences on four continental blocks related to SRM known to have received dsr by LGT were analysed using standard phylogenetic and multidimensional statistical methods. Sequences related to lineages with large genetic diversity correlated positively with habitat divergence. Those affiliated to Thermodesulfobacterium indicated strong biogeographical delineation; hydrothermal-vent sequences clustered independently from hot-spring sequences. Some of the hydrothermal-vent and hot-spring sequences suggested to have been acquired from a common ancestral source may have diverged upon isolation within distinct habitats. In contrast, analysis of some Desulfotomaculum sequences indicated they could have been transferred from different ancestral sources but converged upon isolation within the same niche. These results hint that, after lateral acquisition of dsr genes, barriers to gene flow probably play a strong role in their subsequent evolution.	2011	10.1099/ijs.0.026914-0
Aranguren-Gassis, M; Serret, P; Fernandez, E; Herrera, JL; Dominguez, JF; Perez, V; Escanez, J	Production and respiration control the marine microbial metabolic balance in the eastern North Atlantic subtropical gyre	DEEP-SEA RESEARCH PART I-OCEANOGRAPHIC RESEARCH PAPERS	Two main contrasted hypotheses have arisen during the last decades about the factors controlling the planktonic net metabolic balance in oligotrophic waters: gross primary production controls net community production vs. variability of net community production is also influenced by changes in microbial respiration. This work discusses both hypotheses analyzing the variability of metabolic rates along a gradient from the margin to the centre of the North Atlantic oligotrophic gyre. i.e. from relatively productive to more oligotrophic conditions. Net community production (NCP) was close to zero (between -3.34 and -11.77 mmol O-2 m(-2) d(-1)) at the margin of the gyre and tended towards net heterotrophy (-44.03 mmol O-2 m(-2) d(-1)) to the centre of the gyre as both gross primary production (GPP) and community respiration (CR) decreased. The strong relationships found between nutrient availability and both NCP and GPP suggest that factors controlling GPP are prevalent in determining NCP variability in this biogeographic region. However implementation of existing models to predict NCP from the measured GPP indicates that the precise estimation of NCP in different oligotrophic systems requires consideration of the magnitude and variability of microbial respiration rates. (C) 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2011	10.1016/j.dsr.2011.05.003
Douhan, GW; Vincenot, L; Gryta, H; Selosse, MA	Population genetics of ectomycorrhizal fungi: from current knowledge to emerging directions	FUNGAL BIOLOGY	Ectomycorrhizal (EM) fungi are major microbial components of boreal, temperate and Mediterranean forests, as well as some tropical forest ecosystems. Nearly two decades of studies have clarified many aspects of their population biology, based on several model species from diverse lineages of fungi where the EM symbiosis evolved, i.e. among Hymenomycetes and, to a lesser extent, among Ascomycetes. In this review, we show how tools for individual recognition have changed, shifting from the use of somatic incompatibility reactions to dominant and non-specific markers (such as random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) and amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP)) and, more recently, to co-dominant and specific markers (such as microsatellites and single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs)). At the same time, the theoretical focus has also changed. In earlier studies, a major aim was the description of genet size and popul/ation strategy. For example, we show how some studies supported or challenged the simple, classical model of colonization of new forest stands by ruderal (R) species, propagating by spores and forming small genets, progressively replaced in older forests by more competitive (C) species, propagating by mycelial growth and forming larger genets. By contrast, more recent studies give insights into some genetic traits, such as partners assortment (allo- versus autogamy), genetic structure of populations and gene flow that turn out to depend both on distance and on whether spores are animal- or wind-dispersed. We discuss the rising awareness that (i) many morphospecies contain cryptic biological species (often sympatric) and (ii) trans- and inter-continental species may often contain several biological species isolated by distance. Finally, we show the emergence of biogeographic approaches and call for some aspects to be developed, such as fine-scale and long-term population monitoring, analyses of subterranean populations of extra-radical mycelia, or more model species from the tropics, as well as from the Ascomycetes (whose genetic idiosyncrasies are discussed). With the rise of the -omics sciences, analysis of population structure for non-neutral genes is expected to develop, and forest management and conservation biology will probably profit from published and expected work. (C) 2011 The British Mycological Society. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2011	10.1016/j.funbio.2011.03.005
Moora, M; Berger, S; Davison, J; Opik, M; Bommarco, R; Bruelheide, H; Kuhn, I; Kunin, WE; Metsis, M; Rortais, A; Vanatoa, A; Vanatoa, E; Stout, JC; Truusa, M; Westphal, C; Zobel, M; Walther, GR	Alien plants associate with widespread generalist arbuscular mycorrhizal fungal taxa: evidence from a continental-scale study using massively parallel 454 sequencing	JOURNAL OF BIOGEOGRAPHY	Aim The biogeography of arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi is poorly understood, and consequently the potential of AM fungi to determine plant distribution has been largely overlooked. We aimed to describe AM fungal communities associating with a single host-plant species across a wide geographical area, including the plants native, invasive and experimentally introduced ranges. We hypothesized that an alien AM plant associates primarily with the geographically widespread generalist AM fungal taxa present in a novel range. Location Europe, China. Methods We transplanted the palm Trachycarpus fortunei into nine European sites where it does not occur as a native species, into one site where it is naturalized (Switzerland), and into one glasshouse site. We harvested plant roots after two seasons. In addition, we sampled palms at three sites in the plants native range (China). Roots were subjected to DNA extraction, polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and 454 sequencing of AM fungal sequences. We analysed fungal communities with non-metric multidimensional scaling (NMDS) ordination and cluster analysis and studied the frequency of geographically widespread fungal taxa with log-linear analysis. We compared fungal communities in the roots of the palm with those in resident plants at one site in the introduced range (Estonia) where natural AM fungal communities had previously been studied. Results We recorded a total of 73 AM fungal taxa. AM fungal communities in the native and introduced ranges differed from one another, while those in the invasive range contained taxa present in both other ranges. Geographically widespread AM fungal taxa were over-represented in palm roots in all regions, but especially in the introduced range. At the Estonian site, the palm was colonized by the same community of widespread AM fungal taxa as associate with resident habitat-generalist plants; by contrast, resident forest-specialist plants were colonized by a diverse community of widespread and other AM fungal taxa. Main conclusions AM fungal communities in the native, invasive and experimentally introduced ranges varied in taxonomic composition and richness, but they shared a pool of geographically widespread, non-host-specific taxa that might support the invasion of a generalist alien plant. Our dataset provides the first geographical overview of AM taxon distributions obtained using a single host-plant species.	2011	10.1111/j.1365-2699.2011.02478.x
Lemos, LN; Fulthorpe, RR; Triplett, EW; Roesch, LFW	Rethinking microbial diversity analysis in the high throughput sequencing era	JOURNAL OF MICROBIOLOGICAL METHODS	The analysis of amplified and sequenced 16S rRNA genes has become the most important single approach for microbial diversity studies. The new sequencing technologies allow for sequencing thousands of reads in a single run and a cost-effective option is split into a single run across many samples. However for this type of investigation the key question that needs to be answered is how many samples can be sequenced without biasing the results due to lack of sequence representativeness? In this work we demonstrated that the level of sequencing effort used for analyzing soil microbial communities biases the results and determines the most effective type of analysis for small and large datasets. Many simulations were performed with four independent pyrosequencing-generated 16S rRNA gene libraries from different environments. The analysis performed here illustrates the lack of resolution of OTU-based approaches for datasets with low sequence coverage. This analysis should be performed with at least 90% of sequence coverage. Diversity index values increase with sample size making normalization of the number of sequences in all samples crucial. An important finding of this study was the advantage of phylogenetic approaches for examining microbial communities with low sequence coverage. However, if the environments being compared were closely related, a deeper sequencing would be necessary to detect the variation in the microbial composition. (C) 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2011	10.1016/j.mimet.2011.03.014
Rua, MA; Pollina, EC; Power, AG; Mitchell, CE	The role of viruses in biological invasions: friend or foe?	CURRENT OPINION IN VIROLOGY	Biological invasions occur when plants, animals, or microbes are introduced to a new geographic region, then spread and have negative consequences for the local ecosystem. Across both plant and animal hosts, viruses can play diverse roles in biological invasions. First, viruses can either decrease or increase the impacts of biological invasions by their hosts. Introduced hosts commonly leave behind many viruses from their native ranges, which may allow the hosts to achieve greater fitness and thus dominate in their introduced ranges. Viruses that do infect introduced hosts may reduce invasive host fitness and impacts. However, many viruses that infect introduced hosts also infect native hosts and may have more severe impacts on the native hosts. Second, viruses can also be invasive species themselves. While many viruses are believed to be introduced, it is challenging to differentiate between those that are native and those that are not. Third, many viruses are transmitted by vectors, which can also be introduced to new regions. Introduced vectors can increase virus transmission rates, altering host communities and ecosystems. Further advancing our understanding of the role of viruses in biological invasions will require research that integrates the systematics, biogeography and ecological history of hosts, vectors, and viruses.	2011	10.1016/j.coviro.2011.05.018
Dequiedt, S; Saby, NPA; Lelievre, M; Jolivet, C; Thioulouse, J; Toutain, B; Arrouays, D; Bispo, A; Lemanceau, P; Ranjard, L	Biogeographical patterns of soil molecular microbial biomass as influenced by soil characteristics and management	GLOBAL ECOLOGY AND BIOGEOGRAPHY	Aim The spatial organization of soil microbial communities on large scales and the identification of environmental factors structuring their distribution have been little investigated. The overall objective of this study was to determine the spatial patterning of microbial biomass in soils over a wide extent and to rank the environmental filters most influencing this distribution. Location French territory using the French Soil Quality Monitoring Network. This network covers the entire French territory and soils were sampled at 2150 sites along a systematic grid. Methods The soil DNA extracted from all these soils was expressed in terms of soil molecular microbial biomass and related to other soil and land-use data over French territory. Results This study provides the first extensive map of microbial biomass and reveals the heterogeneous and spatially structured distribution of this biomass on the scale of France. The main factors driving biomass distribution are the physico-chemical properties of the soil (texture, pH and total organic carbon) as well as land use. Soils from land used for intensive agriculture, especially monoculture and vineyards, exhibited the smallest biomass pools. Interestingly, factors known to influence the large-scale distribution of macroorganisms, such as climatic factors, were not identified as important drivers for microbial communities. Main conclusions Microbial abundance is spatially structured and dependent on local filters such as soil characteristics and land use but is relatively independent of global filters such as climatic factors or the presence of natural barriers. Our study confirms that the biogeography of microorganisms differs fundamentally from the biogeography of macroorganisms and that soil management can have significant large-scale effects.	2011	10.1111/j.1466-8238.2010.00628.x
Griffiths, RI; Thomson, BC; James, P; Bell, T; Bailey, M; Whiteley, AS	The bacterial biogeography of British soils	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Despite recognition of the importance of soil bacteria to terrestrial ecosystem functioning there is little consensus on the factors regulating belowground biodiversity. Here we present a multi-scale spatial assessment of soil bacterial community profiles across Great Britain (> 1000 soil cores), and show the first landscape scale map of bacterial distributions across a nation. Bacterial diversity and community dissimilarities, assessed using terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism, were most strongly related to soil pH providing a large-scale confirmation of the role of pH in structuring bacterial taxa. However, while alpha diversity was positively related to pH, the converse was true for beta diversity (between sample variance in alpha diversity). beta diversity was found to be greatest in acidic soils, corresponding with greater environmental heterogeneity. Analyses of clone libraries revealed the pH effects were predominantly manifest at the level of broad bacterial taxonomic groups, with acidic soils being dominated by few taxa (notably the group 1 Acidobacteria and Alphaproteobacteria). We also noted significant correlations between bacterial communities and most other measured environmental variables (soil chemistry, aboveground features and climatic variables), together with significant spatial correlations at close distances. In particular, bacterial and plant communities were closely related signifying no strong evidence that soil bacteria are driven by different ecological processes to those governing higher organisms. We conclude that broad scale surveys are useful in identifying distinct soil biomes comprising reproducible communities of dominant taxa. Together these results provide a baseline ecological framework with which to pursue future research on both soil microbial function, and more explicit biome based assessments of the local ecological drivers of bacterial biodiversity.	2011	10.1111/j.1462-2920.2011.02480.x
Thorpe, AS; Callaway, RM	Biogeographic differences in the effects of Centaurea stoebe on the soil nitrogen cycle: novel weapons and soil microbes	BIOLOGICAL INVASIONS	The success of some invasive plants may be due in part to native organisms lacking adaptation to species-specific biochemical traits of invaders-the Novel Weapons Hypothesis. We tested this hypothesis in the context of soil microbial communities by comparing the effects of Centaurea stoebe and the root exudate (+/-)-catechin, on ammonification and nitrification in both the non-native and native ranges of this species. In a non-native range (Montana), soil nitrate (NO(3) (-)) concentrations were lower in invaded than uninvaded grasslands. This did not appear to be due only to higher uptake rates as both C. stoebe plants and catechin significantly reduced resin extractable NO(3) (-), the maximum rate of nitrification, and gross nitrification in Montana soils. Thus, reduced NO(3) (-) in invaded communities may be due in part to the inhibition of nitrifying bacteria by secondary metabolites produced by C. stoebe. The effects of C. stoebe on N-related processes were different in Romanian grasslands, where C. stoebe is native. In Romanian soil, C. stoebe had no effect on resin extractable NH(4) (+) or NO(3) (-) (compared to other plant species), the maximum rate of nitrification, nor gross nitrification. A relatively high concentration of catechin reduced the maximum rate of nitrification in situ, but substantially less than in Montana. In vivo, gross ammonification was lowest when treated with catechin. Our results suggest biogeographic differences in the way a plant species alters nitrogen cycling through the direct effects of root exudates and adds to a growing body of literature demonstrating the important belowground effects of invasive plants.	2011	10.1007/s10530-010-9902-9
Andonian, K; Hierro, JL; Khetsuriani, L; Becerra, P; Janoyan, G; Villarreal, D; Cavieres, L; Fox, LR; Callaway, RM	Range-Expanding Populations of a Globally Introduced Weed Experience Negative Plant-Soil Feedbacks	PLOS ONE	Background: Biological invasions are fundamentally biogeographic processes that occur over large spatial scales. Interactions with soil microbes can have strong impacts on plant invasions, but how these interactions vary among areas where introduced species are highly invasive vs. naturalized is still unknown. In this study, we examined biogeographic variation in plant-soil microbe interactions of a globally invasive weed, Centaurea solstitialis (yellow starthistle). We addressed the following questions (1) Is Centaurea released from natural enemy pressure from soil microbes in introduced regions? and (2) Is variation in plant-soil feedbacks associated with variation in Centaureas invasive success? Methodology/Principal Findings: We conducted greenhouse experiments using soils and seeds collected from native Eurasian populations and introduced populations spanning North and South America where Centaurea is highly invasive and noninvasive. Soil microbes had pervasive negative effects in all regions, although the magnitude of their effect varied among regions. These patterns were not unequivocally congruent with the enemy release hypothesis. Surprisingly, we also found that Centaurea generated strong negative feedbacks in regions where it is the most invasive, while it generated neutral plant-soil feedbacks where it is noninvasive. Conclusions/Significance: Recent studies have found reduced below-ground enemy attack and more positive plant-soil feedbacks in range-expanding plant populations, but we found increased negative effects of soil microbes in range-expanding Centaurea populations. While such negative feedbacks may limit the long-term persistence of invasive plants, such feedbacks may also contribute to the success of invasions, either by having disproportionately negative impacts on competing species, or by yielding relatively better growth in uncolonized areas that would encourage lateral spread. Enemy release from soil-borne pathogens is not sufficient to explain the success of this weed in such different regions. The biogeographic variation in soil-microbe effects indicates that different mechanisms may operate on this species in different regions, thus establishing geographic mosaics of species interactions that contribute to variation in invasion success.	2011	10.1371/journal.pone.0020117
Zinger, L; Lejon, DPH; Baptist, F; Bouasria, A; Aubert, S; Geremia, RA; Choler, P	Contrasting Diversity Patterns of Crenarchaeal, Bacterial and Fungal Soil Communities in an Alpine Landscape	PLOS ONE	Background: The advent of molecular techniques in microbial ecology has aroused interest in gaining an understanding about the spatial distribution of regional pools of soil microbes and the main drivers responsible of these spatial patterns. Here, we assessed the distribution of crenarcheal, bacterial and fungal communities in an alpine landscape displaying high turnover in plant species over short distances. Our aim is to determine the relative contribution of plant species composition, environmental conditions, and geographic isolation on microbial community distribution. Methodology/Principal Findings: Eleven types of habitats that best represent the landscape heterogeneity were investigated. Crenarchaeal, bacterial and fungal communities were described by means of Single Strand Conformation Polymorphism. Relationships between microbial beta diversity patterns were examined by using Bray-Curtis dissimilarities and Principal Coordinate Analyses. Distance-based redundancy analyses and variation partitioning were used to estimate the relative contributions of different drivers on microbial beta diversity. Microbial communities tended to be habitat-specific and did not display significant spatial autocorrelation. Microbial beta diversity correlated with soil pH. Fungal beta-diversity was mainly related to soil organic matter. Though the effect of plant species composition was significant for all microbial groups, it was much stronger for Fungi. In contrast, geographic distances did not have any effect on microbial beta diversity. Conclusions/Significance: Microbial communities exhibit non-random spatial patterns of diversity in alpine landscapes. Crenarcheal, bacterial and fungal community turnover is high and associated with plant species composition through different set of soil variables, but is not caused by geographical isolation.	2011	10.1371/journal.pone.0019950
Martiny, JBH; Eisen, JA; Penn, K; Allison, SD; Horner-Devine, MC	Drivers of bacterial beta-diversity depend on spatial scale	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	The factors driving beta-diversity (variation in community composition) yield insights into the maintenance of biodiversity on the planet. Here we tested whether the mechanisms that underlie bacterial beta-diversity vary over centimeters to continental spatial scales by comparing the composition of ammonia-oxidizing bacteria communities in salt marsh sediments. As observed in studies of macroorganisms, the drivers of salt marsh bacterial beta-diversity depend on spatial scale. In contrast to macroorganism studies, however, we found no evidence of evolutionary diversification of ammonia-oxidizing bacteria taxa at the continental scale, despite an overall relationship between geographic distance and community similarity. Our data are consistent with the idea that dispersal limitation at local scales can contribute to beta-diversity, even though the 16S rRNA genes of the relatively common taxa are globally distributed. These results highlight the importance of considering multiple spatial scales for understanding microbial biogeography.	2011	10.1073/pnas.1016308108
van Gremberghe, I; Leliaert, F; Mergeay, J; Vanormelingen, P; Van der Gucht, K; Debeer, AE; Lacerot, G; De Meester, L; Vyverman, W	Lack of Phylogeographic Structure in the Freshwater Cyanobacterium Microcystis aeruginosa Suggests Global Dispersal	PLOS ONE	Background: Free-living microorganisms have long been assumed to have ubiquitous distributions with little biogeographic signature because they typically exhibit high dispersal potential and large population sizes. However, molecular data provide contrasting results and it is far from clear to what extent dispersal limitation determines geographic structuring of microbial populations. We aimed to determine biogeographical patterns of the bloom-forming freshwater cyanobacterium Microcystis aeruginosa. Being widely distributed on a global scale but patchily on a regional scale, this prokaryote is an ideal model organism to study microbial dispersal and biogeography. Methodology/Principal Findings: The phylogeography of M. aeruginosa was studied based on a dataset of 311 rDNA internal transcribed spacer (ITS) sequences sampled from six continents. Richness of ITS sequences was high (239 ITS types were detected). Genetic divergence among ITS types averaged 4% (maximum pairwise divergence was 13%). Preliminary analyses revealed nearly completely unresolved phylogenetic relationships and a lack of genetic structure among all sequences due to extensive homoplasy at multiple hypervariable sites. After correcting for this, still no clear phylogeographic structure was detected, and no pattern of isolation by distance was found on a global scale. Concomitantly, genetic differentiation among continents was marginal, whereas variation within continents was high and was mostly shared with all other continents. Similarly, no genetic structure across climate zones was detected. Conclusions/Significance: The high overall diversity and wide global distribution of common ITS types in combination with the lack of phylogeographic structure suggest that intercontinental dispersal of M. aeruginosa ITS types is not rare, and that this species might have a truly cosmopolitan distribution.	2011	10.1371/journal.pone.0019561
Liu, X; Xiao, T; Luan, QS; Zhang, WY; Wang, MQ; Yue, HD	Bacterial diversity, composition and temporal-spatial variation in the sediment of Jiaozhou Bay, China	CHINESE JOURNAL OF OCEANOLOGY AND LIMNOLOGY	Studies on the diversity and distribution of bacterial populations will improve the overall understanding of the global patterns of marine bacteria and help to comprehend local biochemical processes and environments. We evaluated the composition and the dynamics of bacterial communities in the sediment of Jiaozhou Bay (China) using PCR-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE). Sediment samples were collected from 10 different sites in May, August, and November 2008 and in February 2009. There was significant temporal variation in bacterial community composition at all sites. However, the spatial variation was very small. The DGGE analyses of bacterial communities were used to divide the 10 stations into three types. Canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) revealed that the changes in bacterial communities were driven by sediment properties. Sequence analysis of DGGE band-derived 16S rRNA gene fragments revealed that the dominant bacterial groups in the sediment were of the classes gamma-proteobacteria and delta-proteobacteria and phyla Bacteroidetes and Nitrospirae. Our results provide considerable insight into the bacterial community structure in Jiaozhou Bay, China.	2011	10.1007/s00343-011-0159-7
Hamilton, TL; Boyd, ES; Peters, JW	Environmental Constraints Underpin the Distribution and Phylogenetic Diversity of nifH in the Yellowstone Geothermal Complex	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Biological nitrogen fixation is a keystone process in many ecosystems, providing bioavailable forms of fixed nitrogen for members of the community. In the present study, degenerate primers targeting the nitrogenase iron protein-encoding gene (nifH) were designed and employed to investigate the physical and chemical parameters that underpin the distribution and diversity of nifH as a proxy for nitrogen-fixing organisms in the geothermal springs of Yellowstone National Park (YNP), Wyoming. nifH was detected in 57 of the 64 YNP springs examined, which varied in pH from 1.90 to 9.78 and temperature from 16A degrees C to 89A degrees C. This suggested that the distribution of nifH in YNP is widespread and is not constrained by pH and temperature alone. Phylogenetic and statistical analysis of nifH recovered from 13 different geothermal spring environments indicated that the phylogeny exhibits evidence for both geographical and ecological structure. Model selection indicated that the phylogenetic relatedness of nifH assemblages could be best explained by the geographic distance between sampling sites. This suggests that nifH assemblages are dispersal limited with respect to the fragmented nature of the YNP geothermal spring environment. The second highest ranking explanatory variable for predicting the phylogenetic relatedness of nifH assemblages was spring water conductivity (a proxy for salinity), suggesting that salinity may constrain the distribution of nifH lineages in geographically isolated YNP spring ecosystems. In summary, these results indicate a widespread distribution of nifH in YNP springs, and suggest a role for geographical and ecological factors in constraining the distribution of nifH lineages in the YNP geothermal complex.	2011	10.1007/s00248-011-9824-9
Li, QQ; Wang, ET; Zhang, YZ; Zhang, YM; Tian, CF; Sui, XH; Chen, WF; Chen, WX	Diversity and Biogeography of Rhizobia Isolated from Root Nodules of Glycine max Grown in Hebei Province, China	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	A total of 215 rhizobial strains were isolated and analyzed with 16S rRNA gene, 16S-23S intergenic spacer, housekeeping genes atpD, recA, and glnII, and symbiotic genes nifH and nodC to understand the genetic diversity of soybean rhizobia in Hebei province, China. All the strains except one were symbiotic bacteria classified into nine genospecies in the genera of Bradyrhizobium and Sinorhizobium. Surveys on the distribution of these rhizobia in different regions showed that Bradyrhizobium japonicum and Bradyrhizobium elkanii strains were found only in neutral to slightly alkaline soils whereas Bradyrhizobium yuanmingense, Bradyrhizobium liaoningense-related strains and strains of five Sinorhizobium genospecies were found in alkaline-saline soils. Correspondence and canonical correspondence analyses on the relationship of rhizobial distribution and their soil characteristics reveal that high soil pH, electrical conductivity, and potassium content favor distribution of the B. yuanmingense and the five Sinorhizobium species but inhibit B. japonicum and B. elkanii. High contents of available phosphorus and organic matters benefit Sinorhizobium fredii and B. liaoningense-related strains and inhibit the others groups mentioned above. The symbiotic gene (nifH and nodC) lineages among B. elkanii, B. japonicum, B. yuanmingense, and Sinorhizobium spp. were observed in the strains, signifying that vertical gene transfer was the main mechanism to maintain these genes in the soybean rhizobia. However, lateral transfer of symbiotic genes commonly in Sinorhizobium spp. and rarely in Bradyrhizobium spp. was also detected. These results showed the genetic diversity, the biogeography, and the soil determinant factors of soybean rhizobia in Hebei province of China.	2011	10.1007/s00248-011-9820-0
Callaway, RM; Bedmar, EJ; Reinhart, KO; Silvan, CG; Klironomos, J	Effects of soil biota from different ranges on Robinia invasion: acquiring mutualists and escaping pathogens	ECOLOGY	The net effects of soil biota on exotic invaders can be variable, in part, because net effects are produced by many interacting mutualists and antagonists. Here we compared mutualistic and antagonistic biota in soils collected in the native, expanded, and invasive range of the black locust tree, Robinia pseudoacacia. Robinia formed nodules in all soils with a broad phylogenetic range of N-fixing bacteria, and leaf N did not differ among the different sources of soil. This suggests that the global expansion of Robinia was not limited by the lack of appropriate mutualistic N-fixers. Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) from the native range stimulated stronger positive feedbacks than AMF from the expanded or invasive ranges, a biogeographic difference not described previously for invasive plants. Pythium taxa collected from soil in the native range were not more pathogenic than those from other ranges; however, feedbacks produced by the total soil biota were more negative from soils from the native range than from the other ranges, overriding the effects of AMF. This suggests that escape from other pathogens in the soil or the net negative effects of the whole soil community may contribute to superior performance in invaded regions. Our results suggest that important regional evolutionary relationships may occur among plants and soil biota, and that net effects of soil biota may affect invasion, but in ways that are not easily explained by studying isolated components of the soil biota.	2011	
de Carcer, DA; Cuiv, PO; Wang, TT; Kang, SH; Worthley, D; Whitehall, V; Gordon, I; McSweeney, C; Leggett, B; Morrison, M	Numerical ecology validates a biogeographical distribution and gender-based effect on mucosa-associated bacteria along the human colon	ISME JOURNAL	We applied constrained ordination numerical ecology methods to data produced with a human intestinal tract-specific phylogenetic microarray (the Aus-HIT Chip) to examine the microbial diversity associated with matched biopsy tissue samples taken from the caecum, transverse colon, sigmoid colon and rectum of 10 healthy patients. Consistent with previous studies, the profiles revealed a marked intersubject variability; however, the numerical ecology methods of analysis allowed the subtraction of the subject effect from the data and revealed, for the first time, evidence of a longitudinal gradient for specific microbes along the colorectum. In particular, probes targeting Streptococcus and Enterococcus spp. produced strongest signals with caecal and transverse colon samples, with a gradual decline through to the rectum. Conversely, the analyses suggest that several members of the Enterobacteriaceae increase in relative abundance towards the rectum. These collective differences were substantiated by the multivariate analysis of quantitative PCR data. We were also able to identify differences in the microarray profiles, especially for the streptococci and Faecalibacterium prausnitzii, on the basis of gender. The results derived by these multivariate analyses are biologically intuitive and suggest that the biogeography of the colonic mucosa can be monitored for changes through cross-sectional and/or inception cohort studies. The ISME Journal (2011) 5, 801-809; doi:10.1038/ismej.2010.177; published online 2 December 2010	2011	10.1038/ismej.2010.177
Gootenberg, DB; Turnbaugh, PJ	COMPANION ANIMALS SYMPOSIUM: Humanized animal models of the microbiome	JOURNAL OF ANIMAL SCIENCE	Humans and other mammals are colonized by trillions of microorganisms, most of which reside in the gastrointestinal tract, that provide key metabolic capabilities, such as the biosynthesis of vitamins and AA, the degradation of dietary plant polysaccharides, and the metabolism of orally administered therapeutics. Although much progress has been made by studying the human microbiome directly, comparing the human microbiome with that of other animals, and constructing in vitro models of the human gut, there remains a need to develop in vivo models where host, microbial, and environmental parameters can be manipulated. Here, we discuss some of the initial results from a promising method that enables the direct manipulation of microbial community structure, environmental exposures, host genotype, and other factors: the colonization of germ-free animals with complex microbial communities, including those from humans or other animal donors. Analyses of these resulting humanized gut microbiomes have begun to reveal 1) that key microbial activities can be transferred from the donor to the recipient animal (e. g., microbial reduction of cholesterol and production of equol), 2) that dietary shifts can affect the composition, gene abundance, and gene expression of the gut microbiome, 3) the succession of the microbial community in infants and ex-germ-free adult animals, and 4) the biogeography of these microbes across the length of gastrointestinal tract. Continued studies of humanized and other intentionally colonized animal models stand to provide new insight into not only the human microbiome, but also the microbiomes of our animal companions.	2011	10.2527/jas.2010-3371
Singh, SK; Ramaiah, N	Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis profiling of bacterial communities composition in Arabian Sea	JOURNAL OF ENVIRONMENTAL BIOLOGY	Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) was used to elucidate spatial and temporal variations in bacterial community composition (BCC) from four locations along the central west coast of India. DNA extracts from 36 water samples collected from surface, mid-depth (similar to 10 m) and dose to bottom (similar to 20 m) during premonsoon, postmonsoon, monsoon were analyzed by PCR for amplifying variable region of 16S rRNA gene and subsequently through DGGE. Prominent bands were excised, cloned and sequenced indicated the preponderance of gammaproteobacteria, bacteroidetes and cyanobacteria. Non-metric dimensional scaling of the DGGE gels indicated that the spatial variations in BCC were prominent among the sampling locations. Temporal variations in the BCC appear to be influenced by monsoonal processes. The canonical correspondence analyses suggest that the concentration of chlorophyll a and nitrate are two important environmental factors for both spatial and temporal variations in BCC. Chlorophyll a seems to be impart a top-down control of BCC while nitrate, the bottom-up control. Our results also suggest that BCC can vary over a small geographic distance in highly dynamic, seasonally predisposed tropical coastal waters.	2011	
Noujeim, E; Khater, C; Pages, S; Ogier, JC; Tailliez, P; Hamze, M; Thaler, O	The first record of entomopathogenic nematodes (Rhabiditiae: Steinernematidae and Heterorhabditidae) in natural ecosystems in Lebanon: A biogeographic approach in the Mediterranean region	JOURNAL OF INVERTEBRATE PATHOLOGY	A survey of entomopathogenic nematodes in Lebanon was conducted for the first time during 2008-2009. Samples were collected on the coastal strip and in nine vegetation types extending from the coastal line to 3088 m above sea level. Wooded and herbaceous ecosystems were considered for sampling purposes. A total of 570 samples were taken, out of which 1% were positive for entomopathogenic nematodes. Approximately, 15.8% out of the 19 sites sampled revealed entomopathogenic nematodes presence (representing three samples). Two entomopathogenic nematodes species Heterorhabditis bacteriophora and Steinernema feltiae were recovered, and identification of their symbiotic bacteria revealed the presence of a Xenorhabdus bovienii, Photorhabdus temperata subsp. thracensis. Photorhabdus luminescens subsp. kayaii and Photorhabdus luminescens subsp. Laumondii. (C) 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.	2011	10.1016/j.jip.2011.01.004
Maron, PA; Mougel, C; Ranjard, L	Soil microbial diversity: Methodological strategy, spatial overview and functional interest	COMPTES RENDUS BIOLOGIES	Since the development of industrialization, urbanization and agriculture, soils have been subjected to numerous variations in environmental conditions, which have resulted in modifications of the taxonomic diversity and functioning of the indigenous microbial communities. As a consequence, the functional significance of these losses/modifications of biodiversity, in terms of the capacity of ecosystems to maintain the functions and services on which humanity depends, is now of pivotal importance. In this context, one of the main challenges in soil microbial ecology is to better understand and predict the processes that drive soil microbial diversity and the link between diversity and ecosystem process. This review describes past, present and ongoing conceptual and methodological strategies employed to better assess and understand the distribution and evolution of soil microbial diversity with the aim of increasing our capacity to translate such diversity into soil biological functioning and, more widely, into ecosystem services. (C) 2011 Academic des sciences. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.	2011	10.1016/j.crvi.2010.12.003
Faurby, S; Funch, P	Size is not everything: a meta-analysis of geographic variation in microscopic eukaryotes	GLOBAL ECOLOGY AND BIOGEOGRAPHY	Aim To analyse how important body size is for geographic variation in microscopic organisms in the marine environment and thereby determine the validity of the everything is everywhere hypothesis. Location Marine environments, globally. Methods Studies on geographic variation in all marine eukaryotes smaller than 1 mm and all marine copepods were compiled from the literature and incorporated in multiple binomial regressions to analyse the effect of body size, lifestyle, environmental isolation and taxonomic affinity on the probability of different regions being reciprocally monophyletic. Sample size was also analysed, because a negative relationship between sample size and probability of being reciprocally monophyletic would indicate biases due to undersampling in the original studies. Separate analyses were performed for three potential types of barriers to gene flow for marine organisms (the water barrier of the middle of the oceans, the temperature barrier of the equator, and the land barrier of the continents). Results Environmental isolation was the only variable in the best-fitting model for the probability of populations from each side of an ocean being reciprocally monophyletic. The estimated importance of body size was quite large and the lack of this variable in the best-fitting model may be a power issue due to the small sample size (n = 40). Both environmental isolation and body size were important for the probability of monophyletic populations in different hemispheres. The analysis of isolation between different oceans did not produce clear results. The relationship between sample intensity and probability of being reciprocally monophyletic was positive for the isolation between different oceans and non-existent for the two other analyses. Main conclusions The results showed that body size was an important factor governing the potential for geographic variation but not the only important factor by far. These results clearly weaken the everything is everywhere hypothesis as they showed that microscopic organisms may have geographic variation, albeit to a lesser degree than larger organisms.	2011	10.1111/j.1466-8238.2010.00609.x
Ruehl, CB; Trexler, JC	Comparison of snail density, standing stock, and body size between Caribbean karst wetlands and other freshwater ecosystems	HYDROBIOLOGIA	Synthesizing data from multiple studies generates hypotheses about factors that affect the distribution and abundance of species among ecosystems. Snails are dominant herbivores in many freshwater ecosystems, but there is no comprehensive review of snail density, standing stock, or body size among freshwater ecosystems. We compile data on snail density and standing stock, estimate body size with their quotient, and discuss the major pattern that emerges. We report data from 215 freshwater ecosystems taken from 88 studies that we placed into nine categories. Sixty-five studies reported density, seven reported standing stock, and 16 reported both. Despite the breadth of studies, spatial and temporal sampling scales were limited. Researchers used 25 different sampling devices ranging in area from 0.0015 to 2.5 m(2). Most ecosystem categories had similar snail densities, standing stocks, and body sizes suggesting snails shared a similar function among ecosystems. Caribbean karst wetlands were a striking exception with much lower density and standing stock, but large body size. Disparity in body size results from the presence of ampullariids in Caribbean karst wetlands suggesting that biogeography affects the distribution of taxa, and in this case size, among aquatic ecosystems. We propose that resource quality explains the disparity in density and standing stock between Caribbean karst wetlands and other categories. Periphyton in Caribbean karst wetlands has high carbon-to-phosphorous ratios and defensive characteristics that inhibit grazers. Unlike many freshwater ecosystems where snails are key grazers, we hypothesize that a microbial loop captures much of the primary production in Caribbean karst wetlands.	2011	10.1007/s10750-011-0612-9
Mortimer, E; van Vuuren, BJ; Lee, JE; Marshall, DJ; Convey, P; Chown, SL	Mite dispersal among the Southern Ocean Islands and Antarctica before the last glacial maximum	PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY B-BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES	It has long been maintained that the majority of terrestrial Antarctic species are relatively recent, post last glacial maximum, arrivals with perhaps a few microbial or protozoan taxa being substantially older. Recent studies have questioned this recolonization hypothesis, though the range of taxa examined has been limited. Here, we present the first large-scale study for mites, one of two dominant terrestrial arthropod groups in the region. Specifically, we provide a broad-scale molecular phylogeny of a biologically significant group of ameronothroid mites from across the maritime and sub-Antarctic regions. Applying different dating approaches, we show that divergences among the ameronothroid mite genera Podacarus, Alaskozetes and Halozetes significantly predate the Pleistocene and provide evidence of independent dispersals across the Antarctic Polar Front. Our data add to a growing body of evidence demonstrating that many taxa have survived glaciation of the Antarctic continent and the sub-Antarctic islands. Moreover, they also provide evidence of a relatively uncommon trend of dispersals from islands to continental mainlands. Within the ameronothroid mites, two distinct clades with specific habitat preferences ( marine intertidal versus terrestrial/supralittoral) exist, supporting a model of within-habitat speciation rather than colonization from marine refugia to terrestrial habitats. The present results provide additional impetus for a search for terrestrial refugia in an area previously thought to have lacked ice-free ground during glacial maxima.	2011	10.1098/rspb.2010.1779
Goodman, AL; Kallstrom, G; Faith, JJ; Reyes, A; Moore, A; Dantas, G; Gordon, JI	Extensive personal human gut microbiota culture collections characterized and manipulated in gnotobiotic mice	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	The proportion of the human gut bacterial community that is recalcitrant to culture remains poorly defined. In this report, we combine high-throughput anaerobic culturing techniques with gnotobiotic animal husbandry and metagenomics to show that the human fecal microbiota consists largely of taxa and predicted functions that are represented in its readily cultured members. When transplanted into gnotobiotic mice, complete and cultured communities exhibit similar colonization dynamics, biogeographical distribution, and responses to dietary perturbations. Moreover, gnotobiotic mice can be used to shape these personalized culture collections to enrich for taxa suited to specific diets. We also demonstrate that thousands of isolates from a single donor can be clonally archived and taxonomically mapped in multiwell format to create personalized microbiota collections. Retrieving components of a microbiota that have coexisted in single donors who have physiologic or disease phenotypes of interest and reuniting them in various combinations in gnotobiotic mice should facilitate preclinical studies designed to determine the degree to which tractable bacterial taxa are able to transmit donor traits or influence host biology.	2011	10.1073/pnas.1102938108
Fierer, N; McCain, CM; Meir, P; Zimmermann, M; Rapp, JM; Silman, MR; Knight, R	Microbes do not follow the elevational diversity patterns of plants and animals	ECOLOGY	The elevational gradient in plant and animal diversity is one of the most widely documented patterns in ecology and, although no consensus explanation exists, many hypotheses have been proposed over the past century to explain these patterns. Historically, research on elevational diversity gradients has focused almost exclusively on plant and animal taxa. As a result, we do not know whether microbes exhibit elevational gradients in diversity that parallel those observed for macroscopic taxa. This represents a key knowledge gap in ecology, especially given the ubiquity, abundance, and functional importance of microbes. Here we show that, across a montane elevational gradient in eastern Peru, bacteria living in three distinct habitats (organic soil, mineral soil, and leaf surfaces) exhibit no significant elevational gradient in diversity (r(2) < 0.17, P > 0.1 in all cases), in direct contrast to the significant diversity changes observed for plant and animal taxa across the same montane gradient (r(2) > 0.75, P < 0.001 in all cases). This finding suggests that the biogeographical patterns exhibited by bacteria are fundamentally different from those of plants and animals, highlighting the need for the development of more inclusive concepts and theories in biogeography to explain these disparities.	2011	10.1890/10-1170.1
Said, I; Rodriguez, S; Somerville, ID; Cozar, P	Environmental study of coral assemblages from the upper Visean Tizra Formation (Adarouch area, Morocco): implications for Western Palaeotethys biogeography	NEUES JAHRBUCH FUR GEOLOGIE UND PALAONTOLOGIE-ABHANDLUNGEN	The Tizra Formation located in the northern part of the Azrou-Khenifra region, north-central Morocco provides excellent material for studying the environmental implications on coral assemblages, because it represents sedimentation of complex mixed carbonate and siliciclastic rocks with different platform settings. Six different coral assemblages are described and their relationships with environmental factors are analysed. The analysis of coral assemblages allows to identify the sedimentation of the Tizra Formation in a complex platform/ramp with the development of microbial mounds and strong compartmentalisation that produces diverse ecological niches for the development of corals. Comparison of the assemblages from the Tizra Formation with other areas from the Western Palaeotethys (British Isles, SW Spain and other assemblages in North Africa) shows high similarities between all of them. However, some peculiarities occur in the Tizra Formation, where the shallow-water coral assemblages show higher diversity, but deeper-water coral assemblages from Adarouch show lower diversity than those in northern European areas. Partial geographic isolation of the Adarouch-Khenifra region and/or latitudinal differences with the Western European region seem to be the main reasons for these differences.	2011	10.1127/0077-7749/2011/0135
Margesin, R; Miteva, V	Diversity and ecology of psychrophilic microorganisms	RESEARCH IN MICROBIOLOGY	Cold environments represent the majority of the biosphere on Earth and have been successfully colonized by psychrophilic microorganisms that are able to thrive at low temperatures and to survive and even maintain metabolic activity at subzero temperatures. These microorganisms play key ecological roles in their habitats and include a wide diversity of representatives of all three domains (Bacteria, Archaea, Eukarya). In this review, we summarize recent knowledge on the abundance, on the taxonomic and functional biodiversity, on low temperature adaptation and on the biogeography of microbial communities in a range of aquatic and terrestrial cold environments. (C) 2010 Institut Pasteur. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.	2011	10.1016/j.resmic.2010.12.004
Tell, G; Izaguirre, I; Allende, L	Diversity and geographic distribution of Chlorococcales (Chlorophyceae) in contrasting lakes along a latitudinal transect in Argentinean Patagonia	BIODIVERSITY AND CONSERVATION	The present study focuses on the geographic distribution and biodiversity of the Chlorococcales in Patagonian lakes, covering a latitudinal transect. Two different approaches are considered (a) a review of the historical records of Chlorococcales in Patagonia and (b) the analysis of the morphology-based species diversity, ecological remarks, and geographic distribution of the chlorococcalean species recorded in 33 aquatic environments during surveys 2007 and 2008. A total of 308 chlorococcalean species were recorded throughout a 60-year period in Patagonian freshwater systems, encountering the highest chlorococcalean richness in lakes and shallow lakes located in the more intensively sampled areas. In our surveys 2007-2008, 72 chlorococcalean taxa were registered, among which 80% are worldwide distributed, about 19% are restricted to cold temperate areas in both hemispheres and one species (Pediastrum patagonicum) is one of the taxa probably endemic for Patagonia. The chlorococcalean richness in relation to the environmental factors, revealed that it is directly correlated with the trophic status of the water bodies (chl a: r = 0.52 and DIN: r = 0.47; P < 0.05). The latitude was inversely correlated with the species richness (r = -0.40; P < 0.05), and the chlorococcalean biodiversity of the Andean lakes (mean value: 3.64) was significantly lower (P = 0.0022) than that of the lakes from the Patagonian Plateau (mean value: 9.62). In this study we observed a decreasing trend in the biodiversity of Chlorococcales with increasing latitude, which fits in the existing ecological pattern described for different groups of organisms.	2011	10.1007/s10531-010-9955-1
Lara, E; Heger, TJ; Scheihing, R; Mitchell, EAD	COI gene and ecological data suggest size-dependent high dispersal and low intra-specific diversity in free-living terrestrial protists (Euglyphida: Assulina)	JOURNAL OF BIOGEOGRAPHY	Aim Propagule size and ecological requirements are believed to be major factors influencing the passive dispersal of free-living terrestrial protists. We compared the colonization potential of three closely related testate amoeba species (Assulina muscorum, A. seminulum, A. scandinavica, ranging from 40 to 100 mu m in length). Location Europe. Methods We collected individual Assulina species cells from Sphagnum peatlands across Europe. We sequenced a 550-bp fragment of the mitochondrial cytochrome c oxidase subunit I gene (COI) to estimate the within-species variability, as a proxy for gene flow. We reviewed existing ecological and palaeoecological data to assess the ecological tolerance of Assulina species and how rapidly they colonized developing peatlands. Results We obtained COI sequences for 30 individuals of A. seminulum from eleven sites, for 39 of A. muscorum from six sites, and for six of A. scandinavica from two sites. We observed three haplotypes for A. seminulum and two for A. muscorum, often co-existing in the same sites. The sequences of A. scandinavica from the two sites were identical. Assulina muscorum and A. seminulum haplotypes varied by only 1-2 nucleotides, resulting in > 99.5% similarity. Genetic diversity within A. seminulum was higher than that within A. muscorum. Ecological and palaeoecological records showed that A. muscorum was much more frequent and abundant than A. seminulum, and had a somewhat broader ecological tolerance for pH, moisture and water-table depth. Assulina muscorum always appeared early during the developmental history of peatlands, either before or simultaneously with A. seminulum. Main conclusions The lack of genetic structure observed with a variable marker such as COI suggests high gene flow between the sites and thus rapid transport (at an evolutionary scale) over large distances, in agreement with the palaeoecological records. Thus, geographical distance alone does not seem to prevent the dispersal of testate amoebae, at least within Europe. Nevertheless, genetic diversity was significantly lower within A. muscorum than within A. seminulum, suggesting that its smaller size and abundance and/or broader ecological tolerance influence its effective dispersal capacity. These results are in agreement with the often earlier colonization of peatlands by A. muscorum and its broader ecological tolerance.	2011	10.1111/j.1365-2699.2010.02426.x
Watts, PC; Martin, LE; Kimmance, SA; Montagnes, DJS; Lowe, CD	The distribution of Oxyrrhis marina: a global disperser or poorly characterized endemic?	JOURNAL OF PLANKTON RESEARCH	It is often argued that microscopic organisms typically have cosmopolitan distributions. This argument has been criticized as it fails to acknowledge the many protists that have limited geographic distributions. Oxyrrhis marina, a common heterotrophic dinoflagellate in many intertidal and coastal habitats, is regarded as globally distributed, yet despite its prominent role as an experimental planktonic organism there are few explicit studies of this species geographic range. An analysis of 846 water samples globally confirmed the wide geographic distribution of O. marina and extends this morphospecies range into the southern hemisphere. We did not find O. marina beyond 63 degrees N latitude, implying that it is rare, or even absent, in Polar seas. Despite being rare in open water, O. marina inhabits the coastal waters of remote islands, such as Hawaii and the Azores. Beneath the apparent broad spatial range are some emerging patterns on the distribution of distinct genetic clades that form two divergent lineages that may represent different species. Two of the clades have discrete, non-overlapping distributions (one in the European Atlantic and western Mediterranean, and the second in the eastern Mediterranean Sea): one has a broad distribution (both coasts of North America and also in the eastern Mediterranean Sea), and one is limited to culture collections from the Baltic Sea and Red Sea. Thus, the Mediterranean Basin appears to be a diversity hotspot for Oxyrrhis, and there is a mixture of wide distributions and endemicity. These issues are discussed with respect to protist biogeography.	2011	10.1093/plankt/fbq148
Griffin, PC; Robin, C; Hoffmann, AA	A next-generation sequencing method for overcoming the multiple gene copy problem in polyploid phylogenetics, applied to Poa grasses	BMC BIOLOGY	Background: Polyploidy is important from a phylogenetic perspective because of its immense past impact on evolution and its potential future impact on diversification, survival and adaptation, especially in plants. Molecular population genetics studies of polyploid organisms have been difficult because of problems in sequencing multiple-copy nuclear genes using Sanger sequencing. This paper describes a method for sequencing a barcoded mixture of targeted gene regions using next-generation sequencing methods to overcome these problems. Results: Using 64 3-bp barcodes, we successfully sequenced three chloroplast and two nuclear gene regions (each of which contained two gene copies with up to two alleles per individual) in a total of 60 individuals across 11 species of Australian Poa grasses. This method had high replicability, a low sequencing error rate (after appropriate quality control) and a low rate of missing data. Eighty-eight percent of the 320 gene/individual combinations produced sequence reads, and >80% of individuals produced sufficient reads to detect all four possible nuclear alleles of the homeologous nuclear loci with 95% probability. We applied this method to a group of sympatric Australian alpine Poa species, which we discovered to share an allopolyploid ancestor with a group of American Poa species. All markers revealed extensive allele sharing among the Australian species and so we recommend that the current taxonomy be re-examined. We also detected hypermutation in the trnH-psbA marker, suggesting it should not be used as a land plant barcode region. Some markers indicated differentiation between Tasmanian and mainland samples. Significant positive spatial genetic structure was detected at <100 km with chloroplast but not nuclear markers, which may be a result of restricted seed flow and long-distance pollen flow in this wind-pollinated group. Conclusions: Our results demonstrate that 454 sequencing of barcoded amplicon mixtures can be used to reliably sample all alleles of homeologous loci in polyploid species and successfully investigate phylogenetic relationships among species, as well as to investigate phylogeographic hypotheses. This next-generation sequencing method is more affordable than and at least as reliable as bacterial cloning. It could be applied to any experiment involving sequencing of amplicon mixtures.	2011	10.1186/1741-7007-9-19
Mawji, E; Gledhill, M; Milton, JA; Zubkov, MV; Thompson, A; Wolff, GA; Achterberg, EP	Production of siderophore type chelates in Atlantic Ocean waters enriched with different carbon and nitrogen sources	MARINE CHEMISTRY	Siderophore type chelates were detected in nutrient enriched, incubated seawater collected from different biogeographical regions of the Atlantic Ocean. Seawater was enriched with glucose and ammonium, glycine (as a source of carbon and nitrogen) or chitin and ammonium at different concentrations and was incubated for up to 3-4 days in the dark. Siderophore type chelates were detected using high performance liquid chromatography coupled to inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (HPLC-ICP-MS) after complexation with Ga. Samples were subsequently analysed by HPLC-electrospray ionisation mass spectrometry (HPLC-ESI-MS) in order to confirm the identity of the known siderophores, and to obtain the pseudo-molecular ions of unknown siderophore type chelates. A total of 22 different siderophore type chelates were resolved in the HPLC-ICP-MS chromatograms. Ten different siderophore type chelates were identified by HPLC-ESI-MS, 3 of which had not previously been identified in nutrient enriched seawater incubations. The concentration and diversity of siderophore type chelates was highest in seawater amended with glucose. The concentrations and diversity of siderophore type chelates also varied with biogeographical area in the Atlantic Ocean, with the North Atlantic Sub-tropical Gyre yielding highest concentrations in incubations, and the South Atlantic Sub-tropical Gyre and Western Tropical Atlantic yielding the highest diversity. (C) 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2011	10.1016/j.marchem.2010.12.005
Robeson, MS; King, AJ; Freeman, KR; Birky, CW; Martin, AP; Schmidt, SK	Soil rotifer communities are extremely diverse globally but spatially autocorrelated locally	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	Bdelloid rotifers are important contributors to biogeochemical cycling and trophic dynamics of both aquatic and terrestrial ecosystems, but little is known about their biogeographic distribution and community structure in terrestrial environments. This lack of knowledge stems from a lack of phylogenetic information and assumptions that microbial eukaryotes are globally distributed and have very limited diversity across vast geographic distances. However, these assumptions have been based more on assessments of their morphology than any measure of their true genetic diversity and biogeographic distribution. We developed specific primers for the cytochrome c oxidase subunit 1 (cox1) gene of bdelloid rotifers and amplified and cloned sequences using a nested sampling scheme that represented local (0-10 m) to global (up to 10,000 km) scales. Using phylogenetic community analyses (UniFrac) and geospatial statistics (semivariograms, mantel tests), we were able to reject the hypothesis that communities of rotifers are the same across even fairly small geographic distances. Bdelloid communities showed highly significant spatial structuring with spatial autocorrelation ranges of 54-133 m, but beyond that distance communities were extremely dissimilar. Furthermore, we show that these spatial patterns are driven not only by changes in relative abundance of phylotypes but also by absolute changes in phylotype occurrence (richness). There is almost no overlap in phylotype [ or operational taxonomic unit (OTU)] occurrence between communities at distances beyond the autocorrelation range (similar to 133 m). Such small species ranges, combined with their ubiquity in soils, make it increasingly clear that the biodiversity of bdelloid rotifers (and other less easily dispersed microbes) is much higher than previously thought.	2011	10.1073/pnas.1012678108
Newman, WA; Jones, WJ	Two Northeast Pacific deep-water barnacle populations (Cirripedia: Calanticidae and Pachylasmatidae) from seamounts of the Juan de Fuca Ridge; insular endemics stemming from Tethys, or by subsequent dispersal from the Western Pacific center of distribution?	ZOOTAXA	The first adults of the calanticid, Calantica moskalevi Zevina and Galkin, 1989, and specimens of a new pachylasmatine balanomorph genus and species, have been recovered by MBARIs ROV Tiburon, from Juan de Fuca Ridge seamounts at similar to 46 degrees N - 130 degrees W in the NE Pacific off Oregon, similar to 1450 m and 2080 m depths, respectively. These two apparently allopathic populations evidently represent remnants of stocks most commonly confined to relatively deep waters around islands and occasionally continental margins of the Indo-West Pacific. These Juan de Fuca representatives can be inferred to be relicts of once broad Paleogene Tethyan populations rather than relatively recent immigrants by way of the NW Pacific. Apparently, the refugium afforded by seamount islands at bathyal and abyssal depths accounts for their survival in this relatively remote corner of Pacific Oceania.	2011	
Schmidt, SK; Lynch, RC; King, AJ; Karki, D; Robeson, MS; Nagy, L; Williams, MW; Mitter, MS; Freeman, KR	Phylogeography of microbial phototrophs in the dry valleys of the high Himalayas and Antarctica	PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY B-BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES	High-elevation valleys in dry areas of the Himalayas are among the most extreme, yet least explored environments on Earth. These barren, rocky valleys are subjected to year-round temperature fluctuations across the freezing point and very low availability of water and nutrients, causing previous workers to hypothesize that no photoautotrophic life (primary producers) exists in these locations. However, there has been no work using modern biogeochemical or culture-independent molecular methods to test the hypothesis that photoautotrophs are absent from high Himalayan soil systems. Here, we show that although microbial biomass levels are as low as those of the Dry Valleys of Antarctica, there are abundant microbial photoautotrophs, displaying unexpected phylogenetic diversity, in barren soils from just below the permanent ice line of the central Himalayas. Furthermore, we discovered that one of the dominant algal clades from the high Himalayas also contains the dominant algae in culture-independent surveys of both soil and ice samples from the Dry Valleys of Antarctica, revealing an unexpected link between these environmentally similar but geographically very distant systems. Phylogenetic and biogeographic analyses demonstrated that although this algal clade is globally distributed to other high-altitude and high-latitude soils, it shows significant genetic isolation by geographical distance patterns, indicating local adaptation and perhaps speciation in each region. Our results are the first to demonstrate the remarkable similarities of microbial life of arid soils of Antarctica and the high Himalayas. Our findings are a starting point for future comparative studies of the dry valleys of the Himalayas and Antarctica that will yield new insights into the cold and dry limits to life on Earth.	2011	10.1098/rspb.2010.1254
Amano, T; Yoshinaga, I; Yamagishi, T; Chu, VT; Pham, TT; Ueda, S; Kato, K; Sako, Y; Suwa, Y	Contribution of Anammox Bacteria to Benthic Nitrogen Cycling in a Mangrove Forest and Shrimp Ponds, Haiphong, Vietnam	MICROBES AND ENVIRONMENTS	Mangrove forests are common in subtropical regions, and have received considerable attention as vegetative buffers against anthropogenic N-loading. In this study, we investigated anaerobic ammonium oxidation (anammox) as one of potentially important microbial N-removing pathways in mangrove and shrimp pond sediment in Haiphong, Vietnam. Measurements with (15)N-labeled compounds demonstrated the occurrence of anammox in sediment of mangrove forest and a water channel connecting shrimp ponds to the sea in both 2005 and 2007, and of a semi-intensive shrimp pond in 2005. The rate of potential anammox activity reached to 0.7 nmol-N(2) cm(-3) h(-1), although the contribution of anammox was less significant than denitrification. Anammox-type 16S rRNA gene fragments phylogenetically related to Scalindua species were predominantly recovered from mangrove forest and water channel sediment in a PCR-clone library analysis targeting anammox bacteria. Kuenenia-like gene fragments were also recovered from shrimp pond sediment as the major component. We demonstrated the occurrence of potential anammox activity, and suggested the possibility that diverse species of uncultured anammox bacteria contribute to the nitrogen cycle in subtropical mangrove-aquaculture ecosystems. Furthermore, this study provides new insight into the biogeography of anammox bacteria: Scalindua and Kuenenia-like species coexisted in the blackish sediment as in some temperate estuarine sediment.	2011	10.1264/jsme2.ME10150
Boucher, Y; Cordero, OX; Takemura, A; Hunt, DE; Schliep, K; Bapteste, E; Lopez, P; Tarr, CL; Polz, MF	Local Mobile Gene Pools Rapidly Cross Species Boundaries To Create Endemicity within Global Vibrio cholerae Populations	MBIO	Vibrio cholerae represents both an environmental pathogen and a widely distributed microbial species comprised of closely related strains occurring in the tropical to temperate coastal ocean across the globe (Colwell RR, Science 274: 2025-2031, 1996; Griffith DC, Kelly-Hope LA, Miller MA, Am. J. Trop. Med. Hyg. 75: 973-977, 2006; Reidl J, Klose KE, FEMS Microbiol. Rev. 26: 125-139, 2002). However, although this implies dispersal and growth across diverse environmental conditions, how locally successful populations assemble from a possibly global gene pool, relatively unhindered by geographic boundaries, remains poorly understood. Here, we show that environmental Vibrio cholerae possesses two, largely distinct gene pools: one is vertically inherited and globally well mixed, and the other is local and rapidly transferred across species boundaries to generate an endemic population structure. While phylogeographic analysis of isolates collected from Bangladesh and the U.S. east coast suggested strong panmixis for protein-coding genes, there was geographic structure in integrons, which are the only genomic islands present in all strains of V. cholerae (Chun J, et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 106: 15442-15447, 2009) and are capable of acquiring and expressing mobile gene cassettes. Geographic differentiation in integrons arises from high gene turnover, with acquisition from a locally cooccurring sister species being up to twice as likely as exchange with conspecific but geographically distant V. cholerae populations. IMPORTANCE Functional predictions of integron genes show the predominance of secondary metabolism and cell surface modification, which is consistent with a role in competition and predation defense. We suggest that the integron gene pools distinctness and tempo of sharing are adaptive in allowing rapid conversion of genomes to reflect local ecological constraints. Because the integron is frequently the main element differentiating clinical strains (Chun J, et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 106: 15442-15447, 2009) and its recombinogenic activity is directly stimulated by environmental stresses (Guerin E, et al., Science 324: 1034, 2009), these observations are relevant for local emergence and subsequent dispersal.	2011	10.1128/mBio.00335-10
Soininen, J; Korhonen, JJ; Karhu, J; Vetterli, A	Disentangling the spatial patterns in community composition of prokaryotic and eukaryotic lake plankton	LIMNOLOGY AND OCEANOGRAPHY	We sampled 100 small lakes in Finland for bacterio-, phyto-, and zooplankton. The lakes were located in five drainage systems, 20 lakes for each system. We tested two main predictions: that the correlation between community similarity and geographical distance (spatial distance decay) is stronger at the across-drainage than at the within-drainage system scale, and that spatial distance decay is strongest for zooplankton and weakest for bacteria. We used a combination of direct ordination, multivariate statistical tests, and distance-based approaches to examine spatial patterns in our data. Our analyses confirmed both of our predictions. Spatial distance decay was scale-dependent; communities were overall weakly spatially structured within the drainage systems, yet distance decay was significant for all planktonic groups across drainage systems. Spatial distance decay was stronger for zooplankton, with higher slopes and shorter halving distances, than for phytoplankton and bacteria. These results provide evidence that distance decay of similarity is related to study scale, environment, and organism characteristics. Planktonic communities may be controlled by both dispersal-driven assembly and local ecological determinism, with the balance between these two forces depending on study scale.	2011	10.4319/lo.2011.56.2.0508
Raes, J; Letunic, I; Yamada, T; Jensen, LJ; Bork, P	Toward molecular trait-based ecology through integration of biogeochemical, geographical and metagenomic data	MOLECULAR SYSTEMS BIOLOGY	Using metagenomic parts lists to infer global patterns on microbial ecology remains a significant challenge. To deduce important ecological indicators such as environmental adaptation, molecular trait dispersal, diversity variation and primary production from the gene pool of an ecosystem, we integrated 25 ocean metagenomes with geographical, meteorological and geophysicochemical data. We find that climatic factors (temperature, sunlight) are the major determinants of the biomolecular repertoire of each sample and the main limiting factor on functional trait dispersal (absence of biogeographic provincialism). Molecular functional richness and diversity show a distinct latitudinal gradient peaking at 20 degrees N and correlate with primary production. The latter can also be predicted from the molecular functional composition of an environmental sample. Together, our results show that the functional community composition derived from metagenomes is an important quantitative readout for molecular trait-based biogeography and ecology. Molecular Systems Biology 7: 473; published online 15 March 2011; doi:10.1038/msb.2011.6	2011	10.1038/msb.2011.6
Hossain, Z; Sugiyama, S	Geographical structure of soil microbial communities in northern Japan: Effects of distance, land use type and soil properties	EUROPEAN JOURNAL OF SOIL BIOLOGY	Geographical assemblages of biological community are explained by natural selection and/or by stochastic processes of death and recruitment of individuals. We evaluated geographical pattern of the structure of soil bacterial and fungal communities at 32 sites distributed over 8000 km(2) in northern Japan, to examine (1) relative contribution of environmental factors and geographical distance (2) roles of land use types and soil properties, and (3) differences in spatial pattern between bacterial and fungal communities. The abundance and composition of soil bacterial and fungal communities were evaluated by phospholipid fatty acid (PLFA) profiling and denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) method with 16S rDNA and 18S rDNA. PLFA profiling and DNA fingerprinting revealed that geographical distance did not significantly affect geographical patterns of microbial communities, while land use and soil chemical properties had large significant effects. The four land use types (bare ground, agricultural land, grassland, and forest) explained about 30.0% of the total variation in bacterial PLFA abundance, mostly because of their differing soil properties. Correlations with soil properties suggest that litter input from aboveground vegetation determines the bacterial abundance in bare ground and agricultural land, whereas soil pH regulates the bacterial abundance in grassland and forests. DGGE results suggest that fungal community structure is sensitive to human disturbance because agricultural land showed significantly different fungal community structure from other types. (C) 2010 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.	2011	10.1016/j.ejsobi.2010.11.007
Wang, JJ; Soininen, J; Zhang, Y; Wang, BX; Yang, XD; Shen, J	Contrasting patterns in elevational diversity between microorganisms and macroorganisms	JOURNAL OF BIOGEOGRAPHY	Aim Data and analyses of elevational gradients in diversity have been central to the development and evaluation of a range of general theories of biodiversity. Elevational diversity patterns have, however, been severely understudied for microbes, which often represent decomposer subsystems. Consequently, generalities in the patterns of elevational diversity across different trophic levels remain poorly understood. Our aim was to examine elevational gradients in the diversity of macroinvertebrates, diatoms and bacteria along a stony stream that covered a large elevational gradient. Location Laojun Mountain, Yunnan province, China. Methods The sampling scheme included 26 sites spaced at elevational intervals of 89 m from 1820 to 4050 m elevation along a stony stream. Macroinvertebrate and diatom richness were determined based on the morphology of the specimens. Taxonomic richness for bacteria was quantified using a molecular fingerprinting method. Over 50 environmental variables were measured at each site to quantify environmental variables that could correlate with the patterns of diversity. We used eigenvector-based spatial filters with multiple regressions to account for spatial autocorrelation. Results The bacterial richness followed an unexpected monotonic increase with elevation. Diatoms decreased monotonically, and macroinvertebrate richness showed a clear unimodal pattern with elevation. The unimodal richness pattern for macroinvertebrates was best explained by the mid-domain effect (r(2) = 0.72). The diatom richness was best explained by the variation in nutrient supply, and the increase in bacterial richness with elevation may be related to an increased carbon supply. Main conclusions We found contrasting patterns in elevational diversity among the three studied multi-trophic groups comprising unicellular and multicellular aquatic taxa. We also found that there may be fundamental differences in the mechanisms underlying these species diversity patterns.	2011	10.1111/j.1365-2699.2010.02423.x
Lovejoy, C; Potvin, M	Microbial eukaryotic distribution in a dynamic Beaufort Sea and the Arctic Ocean	JOURNAL OF PLANKTON RESEARCH	When Pacific Waters enter the Arctic Ocean, there is an abrupt change from temperature to salinity stratification of the upper water column. This change coincides with a faunal change as Pacific and Bering Sea zooplankton and fish species are replaced by Arctic species. The clear changes in distributions of larger organisms suggest that the Arctic is an ideal environment to test hypothesis of endemism in single-celled planktonic groups. Here, we investigate the distribution of phylotypes of small protists identified by their 18S rRNA gene. We constructed nine new clone libraries from three different water masses from samples collected along the continental shelf and offshore of Beaufort Sea, Western Canadian Arctic. The new data combined with all other available sequences from the Arctic were used to identify possible phylotypes with restricted Arctic distributions. Among those only reported to date from the Arctic were an oligotrichous ciliate, a chlorarachniophyte and a rhizarian. In the near-surface shelf sample, we also retrieved sequences from Pacific species that had not been previously reported in the Arctic. The occurrences of those phylotypes were best explained by incursions of Pacific Water as coastal currents in combination with elevated temperatures in 2005 that would have been favourable to the non-Arctic phylotypes. Overall, we found support for the notion of microbial biogeography and our results suggest that the Arctic may be vulnerable to microbial community changes.	2011	10.1093/plankt/fbq124
Fierer, N; Lennon, JT	THE GENERATION AND MAINTENANCE OF DIVERSITY IN MICROBIAL COMMUNITIES	AMERICAN JOURNAL OF BOTANY	Microorganisms play a central role in the regulation of ecosystem processes, and they comprise the vast majority of species on Earth. With recent developments in molecular methods, it has become tractable to quantify the extent of microbial diversity in natural environments. Here we examine this revolution in our understanding of microbial diversity, and we explore the factors that contribute to the seemingly astounding numbers of microbial taxa found within individual environmental samples. We conducted a meta-analysis of bacterial richness estimates from a variety of ecosystems. Nearly all environments contained hundreds to thousands of bacterial taxa, and richness levels increased with the number of individuals in a sample, a pattern consistent with those reported for nonmicrobial taxa. A cursory comparison might suggest that bacterial richness far exceeds the richness levels typically observed for plant and animal taxa. However, the apparent diversity of bacterial communities is influenced by phylogenetic breadth and allometric scaling issues. When these features are taken into consideration, the levels of microbial diversity may appear less astounding. Although the fields of ecology and biogeography have traditionally ignored microorganisms, there are no longer valid excuses for neglecting microorganisms in surveys of biodiversity. Many of the concepts developed to explain plant and animal diversity patterns can also be applied to microorganisms once we reconcile the scale of our analyses to the scale of the organisms being observed. Furthermore, knowledge from microbial systems may provide insight into the mechanisms that generate and maintain species richness in nonmicrobial systems.	2011	10.3732/ajb.1000498
Xue, QY; Yin, YN; Yang, W; Heuer, H; Prior, P; Guo, JH; Smalla, K	Genetic diversity of Ralstonia solanacearum strains from China assessed by PCR-based fingerprints to unravel host plant- and site-dependent distribution patterns	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Bacterial wilt caused by Ralstonia solanacearum is a serious threat to crop production in China. A collection of 319 R. solanacearum strains isolated from 14 different diseased host plants collected in 15 Chinese provinces was investigated by BOX fingerprints in order to test the influence of the site and the host plant on their genetic diversity. Phylotype, fliC-RFLP patterns and biovar were determined for all strains and the sequevar for 39 representative strains. The majority of strains belonged to the Asian phylotype I, shared identical fliC-RFLP patterns and were assigned to four biovars (bv3:123; bv4:162; bv5:3; and bv6:11). Twenty strains were phylotype II, assigned to biovar 2, and had distinct fliC-RFLP patterns. BOX-PCR fingerprints generated from the genomic DNA of each strain revealed a high diversity of the phylotype I strains, where 28 types of BOX fingerprints could be distinguished. While many BOX clusters comprised isolates from different provinces and several host plants, some groups contained isolates that were plant or site specific. All phylotype II isolates originating from 10 provinces belonged to sequevar 1 and displayed identical BOX patterns as the potato brown rot strains from various regions of the world.	2011	10.1111/j.1574-6941.2010.01026.x
ODonnell, K; Rooney, AP; Mills, GL; Kuo, M; Weber, NS; Rehner, SA	Phylogeny and historical biogeography of true morels (Morchella) reveals an early Cretaceous origin and high continental endemism and provincialism in the Holarctic	FUNGAL GENETICS AND BIOLOGY	True morels (Morchella, Ascomycota) are arguably the most highly-prized of the estimated 1.5 million fungi that inhabit our planet. Field guides treat these epicurean macrofungi as belonging to a few species with cosmopolitan distributions, but this hypothesis has not been tested. Prompted by the results of a growing number of molecular studies, which have shown many microbes exhibit strong biogeographic structure and cryptic speciation, we constructed a 4-gene dataset for 177 members of the Morchellaceae to elucidate their origin, evolutionary diversification and historical biogeography. Diversification time estimates place the origin of the Morchellaceae in the middle Triassic 243.63 (95% highest posterior density [HPD] interval: 169.35-319.89) million years ago (Mya) and the divergence of Morchella from its closest relatives in the early Cretaceous 129.61 (95% HPD interval: 90.26-173.16) Mya, both within western North America. Phylogenetic analyses identified three lineages within Morchella: a basal monotypic lineage represented by Morchella rujobrunnea, and two sister clades comprising the black morels (Elata Clade, 26 species) and yellow morels (Esculenta Clade, 16 species). Morchella possesses a Laurasian distribution with 37/41 species restricted to the Holarctic. All 33 Holarctic species represented by multiple collections exhibited continental endemism. Moreover, 16/18 North American and 13/15 Eurasian species appeared to exhibit provincialism. Although morel fruit bodies produce thousands of explosively discharged spores that are well suited to aerial dispersal, our results suggest that they are poorly adapted at invading novel niches. Morels also appear to have retained the ancestral fruit body plan, which has remained remarkably static since the Cretaceous. Published by Elsevier Inc.	2011	10.1016/j.fgb.2010.09.006
Qian, PY; Wang, Y; Lee, OO; Lau, SCK; Yang, JK; Lafi, FF; Al-Suwailem, A; Wong, TYH	Vertical stratification of microbial communities in the Red Sea revealed by 16S rDNA pyrosequencing	ISME JOURNAL	The ecosystems of the Red Sea are among the least-explored microbial habitats in the marine environment. In this study, we investigated the microbial communities in the water column overlying the Atlantis II Deep and Discovery Deep in the Red Sea. Taxonomic classification of pyrosequencing reads of the 16S rRNA gene amplicons showed vertical stratification of microbial diversity from the surface water to 1500m below the surface. Significant differences in both bacterial and archaeal diversity were observed in the upper (2 and 50m) and deeper layers (200 and 1500 m). There were no obvious differences in community structure at the same depth for the two sampling stations. The bacterial community in the upper layer was dominated by Cyanobacteria whereas the deeper layer harbored a large proportion of Proteobacteria. Among Archaea, Euryarchaeota, especially Halobacteriales, were dominant in the upper layer but diminished drastically in the deeper layer where Desulfurococcales belonging to Crenarchaeota became the dominant group. The results of our study indicate that the microbial communities sampled in this study are different from those identified in water column in other parts of the world. The depth-wise compositional variation in the microbial communities is attributable to their adaptations to the various environments in the Red Sea. The ISME Journal (2011) 5, 507-518; doi: 10.1038/ismej.2010.112; published online 29 July 2010	2011	10.1038/ismej.2010.112
Bru, D; Ramette, A; Saby, NPA; Dequiedt, S; Ranjard, L; Jolivet, C; Arrouays, D; Philippot, L	Determinants of the distribution of nitrogen-cycling microbial communities at the landscape scale	ISME JOURNAL	Little information is available regarding the landscape-scale distribution of microbial communities and its environmental determinants. However, a landscape perspective is needed to understand the relative importance of local and regional factors and land management for the microbial communities and the ecosystem services they provide. In the most comprehensive analysis of spatial patterns of microbial communities to date, we investigated the distribution of functional microbial communities involved in N-cycling and of the total bacterial and crenarchaeal communities over 107 sites in Burgundy, a 31 500km(2) region of France, using a 16 x 16 km(2) sampling grid. At each sampling site, the abundance of total bacteria, crenarchaea, nitrate reducers, denitrifiers- and ammonia oxidizers were estimated by quantitative PCR and 42 soil physico-chemical properties were measured. The relative contributions of land use, spatial distance, climatic conditions, time, and soil physico-chemical properties to the spatial distribution of the different communities were analyzed by canonical variation partitioning. Our results indicate that 43-85% of the spatial variation in community abundances could be explained by the measured environmental parameters, with soil chemical properties (mostly pH) being the main driver. We found spatial autocorrelation up to 739km and used geostatistical modelling to generate predictive maps of the distribution of microbial communities at the landscape scale. The present study highlights the potential of a spatially explicit approach for microbial ecology to identify the overarching factors driving the spatial heterogeneity of microbial communities even at the landscape scale. The ISME Journal (2011) 5, 532-542; doi: 10.1038/ismej.2010.130; published online 12 August 2010	2011	10.1038/ismej.2010.130
Clauss, M; Muller, K; Fickel, J; Streich, WJ; Hatt, JM; Sudekum, KH	Macroecology of the host determines microecology of endobionts: protozoal faunas vary with wild ruminant feeding type and body mass	JOURNAL OF ZOOLOGY	Wild ruminants may differ in their protozoal fauna according to their feeding type, but a comprehensive evaluation of available data is lacking. Here, we evaluate the literature data available on the protozoal fauna (diversity, concentration and proportions of the major groups including Entodiniinae, Diplodiniinae and Isotrichidae) in relation to the natural diet (as percentage of grass in the natural diet, %grass) and body mass (BM) in 55 wild ruminant species. The effects of ruminant phylogeny were controlled for using phylogenies based on molecular data and phylogenetic generalized least-squares. Transferring results from domestic to wild ruminants, we hypothesized (1) a decrease in the proportion of Entodiniinae and an increase in that of Diplodiinae, with %grass in the natural diet; (2) a positive correlation between Diplodiinae and Isotrichidae; (3) no influence of BM on these protozoal groups. Based on the literature statements, we additionally expected that (4) protozoa diversity increased with %grass and BM and that (5) protozoa concentrations were independent of both BM but decreased with %grass. Only hypothesis 1 was confirmed completely. Isotrichidae and Diplodiinae only tended to correlate (P=0.08), but the proportion of Isotrichidae increased with BM. Protozoa diversity only increased with BM but not with %grass. Protozoa concentrations were very variable across the %grass range but in extreme grazers, only low concentrations were reported. The results indicate that diet determines protozoa concentrations and part of the taxonomic composition of the protozoal fauna, but not protozoal diversity. Yet, conditions determining the protozoal fauna have not been completely understood; in particular, conditions relating to the presence of Diplodiinae and Isotrichidae, which occur in opposing magnitudes in wild and domestic ruminants, respectively, remain to be investigated. The results indicate clear effects of the ecology of host species (BM, natural diet) on the ecology of their protozoal endobionts.	2011	10.1111/j.1469-7998.2010.00759.x
Tanabe, Y; Watanabe, MM	Local Expansion of a Panmictic Lineage of Water Bloom-Forming Cyanobacterium Microcystis aeruginosa	PLOS ONE	In previous studies, we have demonstrated that the population structure of the bloom-forming cyanobacterium Microcystis aeruginosa is clonal. Expanded multilocus sequence typing analysis of M. aeruginosa using 412 isolates identified five intraspecific lineages suggested to be panmictic while maintaining overall clonal structure probably due to a reduced recombination rate between lineages. Interestingly, since 2005 most strains belonging to one of these panmictic clusters (group G) have been found in a particular locality (Lake Kasumigaura Basin) in Japan. In this locality, multiple, similar but distinct genotypes of this lineage predominated in the bloom, a pattern that is unprecedented for M. aeruginosa. The population structure underlying blooms associated with this lineage is comparable to epidemics of pathogens. Our results may reveal an expansion of the possible adaptive lineage in a localized aquatic environment, providing us with a unique opportunity to investigate its ecological and biogeographical consequences.	2011	10.1371/journal.pone.0017085
Di Giuseppe, G; Erra, F; Dini, F; Alimenti, C; Vallesi, A; Pedrini, B; Wuthrich, K; Luporini, P	Antarctic and Arctic populations of the ciliate Euplotes nobilii show common pheromone-mediated cell-cell signaling and cross-mating	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	Wild-type strains of the protozoan ciliate Euplotes collected from different locations on the coasts of Antarctica, Tierra del Fuego and the Arctic were taxonomically identified as the morpho-species Euplotes nobilii, based on morphometric and phylogenetic analyses. Subsequent studies of their sexual interactions revealed that mating combinations of Antarctic and Arctic strains form stable pairs of conjugant cells. These conjugant pairs were isolated and shown to complete mutual gene exchange and cross-fertilization. The biological significance of this finding was further substantiated by demonstrating that close homology exists among the three-dimensional structures determined by NMR of the water-borne signaling pheromones that are constitutively secreted into the extracellular space by these interbreeding strains, in which these molecules trigger the switch between the growth stage and the sexual stage of the life cycle. The fact that Antarctic and Arctic E. nobilii populations share the same gene pool and belong to the same biological species provides new support to the biogeographic model of global distribution of eukaryotic microorganisms, which had so far been based exclusively on studies of morphological and phylogenetic taxonomy.	2011	10.1073/pnas.1019432108
Cerritos, R; Eguiarte, LE; Avitia, M; Siefert, J; Travisano, M; Rodriguez-Verdugo, A; Souza, V	Diversity of culturable thermo-resistant aquatic bacteria along an environmental gradient in Cuatro Ci,negas, Coahuila, M,xico	ANTONIE VAN LEEUWENHOEK INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF GENERAL AND MOLECULAR MICROBIOLOGY	At the desert oasis of Cuatro Ci,negas in Coahuila, M,xico, more than 300 oligotrophic pools can be found and a large number of endemic species of plants and animals. The most divergent taxa of diatoms, snail and fishes are located in the Churince hydrological system, where we analyzed the local diversification of cultivable Firmicutes and Actinobacteria. The Churince hydrological system is surrounded by gypsum dunes and has a strong gradient for salinity, temperature, pH and dissolved oxygen. In August 2003, surface water samples were taken in 10 sites along the Churince system together with the respective environmental measurements. 417 thermo-resistant bacteria were isolated and DNA was extracted to obtain their BOX-PCR fingerprints, revealing 55 different patterns. In order to identify similarities and differences in the diversity of the various sampling sites, an Ordination Analysis was applied using Principal Component Analysis. This analysis showed that conductivity is the environmental factor that explains the distribution of most of the microbial diversity. Phylogenetic reconstruction from their 16S rRNA sequences was performed for a sample of 150 isolates. Only 17 sequences had a 100% match in the Gene Bank (NCBI), representing 10 well known cosmopolitan taxa. The rest of the sequences cluster in 22 clades for Firmicutes and another 22 clades for Actinobacteria, supporting the idea of high diversity and differentiation for this site.	2011	10.1007/s10482-010-9490-9
Lima-Bittencourt, CI; Costa, PS; Hollatz, C; Raposeiras, R; Santos, FR; Chartone-Souza, E; Nascimento, AMA	Comparative biogeography of Chromobacterium from the neotropics	ANTONIE VAN LEEUWENHOEK INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF GENERAL AND MOLECULAR MICROBIOLOGY	The genus Chromobacterium encompasses free-living Gram-negative bacteria. Until 2007, the genus consisted of only one species but six species are now recognized. Chromobacterium violaceum is the type species of the genus and is commonly found in soil and water in tropical and sub-tropical regions. We have investigated a collection of 111 isolates displaying violet pigmentation from undisturbed aquatic and soil environments from Brazilian Cerrado ecosystem. The 16S rRNA gene phylogeny revealed that all isolates were allocated in a monophyletic cluster inside the Chromobacterium genus and formed few clusters related most closely with Chromobacterium piscinae. The two sets of isolates from water and soil were analyzed by the repetitive extragenic palindromic (rep)-PCR genomic fingerprinting technique using a BOX-AR1 primer. The antimicrobial susceptibility and the different carbon sources utilized by these isolates were also investigated. Physiological profiles of the isolates generated by BIOLOG GN2 plates showed great versatility in the substrate utilization, much higher than the C. violaceum ATCC 12472. All isolates exhibited a high minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) to ampicillin (MIC > 512 mu g/ml) and were inhibited by ciprofloxacin, tetracycline and mercury at the lowest concentration tested (MIC < 2 mu g/ml). Thirteen BOX-PCR band patterns were identified from 33 individual fingerprints. Eleven patterns provided evidence for endemic distributions. Antimicrobial susceptibility and BOX-PCR fingerprint clustering showed a clear distinction between Chromobacterium isolates from the water and soil. The results suggested that microenvironment barriers such as water and soil can play an important role in the periodic selection and diversification of Chromobacterium population ecotypes.	2011	10.1007/s10482-010-9501-x
Ruamps, LS; Nunan, N; Chenu, C	Microbial biogeography at the soil pore scale	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	Microbial communities exist and are active in a complex 3-D physical framework which can cause a variety of micro-environments to develop that are more or less suitable for microbial growth, activity and survival. If there is a significant microbial biogeography at the pore scale in soil, then the relationship between microbial diversity and ecosystem function is likely to be affected by micro-environmental variations at the pore scale. In this laboratory study we show that there is a significant pore-scale microbial biogeography by labelling microbial communities in different pore size classes of undisturbed soil cores with (13)C-labelled fructose (a soluble, labile substrate). This was achieved by adding the substrate solution to the samples at different matric potentials (-100 kPa, -3.15 kPa and -1 kPa: placing the substrate in pores with maximum diameter of 0.97, 9.7 and 97 mu m, respectively) and incubating the samples for two weeks. The mineralisation of soil organic carbon and fructose was measured as CO(2) and (13)C-CO(2), respectively, in the jar headspace throughout the incubation. At the end of incubation we analysed the total microbial community structure using PLFA. The structure of microbial communities in different pore size classes was measured by PLFA stable isotope probing. Total PLFA profiles suggested that there was little effect of the incubation conditions on microbial community structure. However, labelled PLFA profiles showed that microbial community structure differed significantly among pore size classes, the differences being due primarily to variations in the abundance of mono-unsaturated lipids (Gram-biomarkers) and of the fungal biomarker (C18:2(9,12)). This is the first evidence for a significant microbial biogeography at the pore scale in undisturbed soil cores. (C) 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2011	10.1016/j.soilbio.2010.10.010
Steger, D; Wentrup, C; Braunegger, C; Deevong, P; Hofer, M; Richter, A; Baranyi, C; Pester, M; Wagner, M; Loy, A	Microorganisms with Novel Dissimilatory (Bi)Sulfite Reductase Genes Are Widespread and Part of the Core Microbiota in Low-Sulfate Peatlands	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Peatlands of the Lehstenbach catchment (Germany) house as-yet-unidentified microorganisms with phylogenetically novel variants of the dissimilatory (bi)sulfite reductase genes dsrAB. These genes are characteristic of microorganisms that reduce sulfate, sulfite, or some organosulfonates for energy conservation but can also be present in anaerobic syntrophs. However, nothing is currently known regarding the abundance, community dynamics, and biogeography of these dsrAB-carrying microorganisms in peatlands. To tackle these issues, soils from a Lehstenbach catchment site (Schloppnerbrunnen II fen) from different depths were sampled at three time points over a 6-year period to analyze the diversity and distribution of dsrAB-containing microorganisms by a newly developed functional gene microarray and quantitative PCR assays. Members of novel, uncultivated dsrAB lineages (approximately representing species-level groups) (i) dominated a temporally stable but spatially structured dsrAB community and (ii) represented core members (up to 1% to 1.7% relative abundance) of the autochthonous microbial community in this fen. In addition, denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE)- and clone library-based comparisons of the dsrAB diversity in soils from a wet meadow, three bogs, and five fens of various geographic locations (distance of similar to 1 to 400 km) identified that one Syntrophobacter-related and nine novel dsrAB lineages are widespread in low-sulfate peatlands. Signatures of biogeography in dsrB-based DGGE data were not correlated with geographic distance but could be explained largely by soil pH and wetland type, implying that the distribution of dsrAB-carrying microorganisms in wetlands on the scale of a few hundred kilometers is not limited by dispersal but determined by local environmental conditions.	2011	10.1128/AEM.01352-10
Lin, W; Li, B; Pan, YX	DMTB: A comprehensive online resource of 16S rRNA genes, ecological metadata, oligonucleotides, and magnetic properties of magnetotactic bacteria	CHINESE SCIENCE BULLETIN	Magnetotactic bacteria (MTB) are of interest in microbiology, biomineralization, advanced magnetic materials, and bio-geosciences because of their ability to form highly ordered intracellular magnetic minerals. Great strides for MTB studies have been made in the past four decades. In this paper we complied the first internet-accessible database for MTB, Database of Magnestotactic Bacteria (DMTB). It contains information of 16S rRNA gene sequences, corresponding ecological metadata, oligonucleotides, and magnetic properties of MTB. The comprehensive information contained in DMTB will provide a very useful data resource for researchers from different disciplines. The website of DMTB is at http://database.biomnsl.com/.	2011	10.1007/s11434-010-4275-0
Barberan, A; Casamayor, EO	Euxinic Freshwater Hypolimnia Promote Bacterial Endemicity in Continental Areas	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Bacteria and archaea represent the vast majority of biodiversity on Earth. The ways that dynamic ecological and evolutionary processes interact in the microbial world are, however, poorly known. Here, we have explored community patterns of planktonic freshwater bacteria inhabiting stratified lakes with oxic/anoxic interfaces and euxinic (anoxic and sulfurous) water masses. The interface separates a well-oxygenated upper water mass (epilimnion) from a lower anoxic water compartment (hypolimnion). We assessed whether or not the vertical zonation of lakes promoted endemism in deeper layers by analyzing bacterial 16S rRNA gene sequences from the water column of worldwide distributed stratified lakes and applying a community ecology approach. Community similarity based on the phylogenetic relatedness showed that bacterial assemblages from the same water layer were more similar across lakes than to communities from different layer within lakes and that anoxic hypolimnia presented greater beta-diversity than oxic epilimnia. Higher beta-diversity values are attributable to low dispersal and small connectivity between community patches. In addition, surface waters had significant spatial but non-significant environmental components controlling phylogenetic beta-diversity patterns, respectively. Conversely, the bottom layers were significantly correlated with environment but not with geographic distance. Thus, we observed different ecological mechanisms simultaneously acting on the same water body. Overall, bacterial endemicity is probably more common than previously thought, particularly in isolated and environmentally heterogeneous freshwater habitats. We argue for a microbial diversity conservation perspective still lacking in the global and local biodiversity preservation policies.	2011	10.1007/s00248-010-9775-6
Rice, WC; Gowda, PH	Influence of geographical location, crop type and crop residue cover on bacterial and fungal community structures	GEODERMA	The objective of this study was to evaluate the effects of geographical location, crop type, and residue coverage on soil microbial assemblages in Sherm soil from 30 geographically separate commercial fields in Ochiltree and Moore Counties of Texas. Crop residue coverage was derived from spectral data and used to classify sorghum and wheat fields into high and low crop residue categories. Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis-polymerase chain reaction (DGGE-PCR) assays employing universal PCR primers that target prokaryotic and eukaryotic ribosomal genes were used to evaluate microbial community structure. An interaction between geographical location, crop type, and crop residue coverage was observed. A 50% similarity level was observed for overall bacterial community structure as determined using 16S data while a 59% similarity was observed for overall fungal community structure using 18S data. For the 16S composite dataset, high overall rates of correct classification (ORCC) were observed based on the user-defined groups of county by crop by residue coverage. A similar result was observed for fungal community structure using primer set FR1GC-FF390. Our data support the hypothesis that there are multiple provinces and multiple habitats that govern the assemblage of free-living taxa within the Moore-Ochiltree County agroecosystem. An ancient microbial assemblage based on historical features was identified and is still visible despite the presence of different crop types and cropping systems (Conventional vs. Conservation). For sorghum and wheat grown in Moore and Ochiltree Counties, a two-province state (Moore and Ochiltree Counties) was defined comprised of four habitats i.e. sorghum and wheat habitats influence by degree of residue coverage. Crop type and residue coverage can affect microbial assemblages within a geographical context. Published by Elsevier B.V.	2011	10.1016/j.geoderma.2010.09.003
Tai, V; Burton, RS; Palenik, B	Temporal and spatial distributions of marine Synechococcus in the Southern California Bight assessed by hybridization to bead-arrays	MARINE ECOLOGY PROGRESS SERIES	Marine Synechococcus diversity has been previously described using multi-locus gene sequence phylogenies and the identification of distinct clades. Synechococcus from Clades I, II, III, and IV and from sub-clades within Clades I and IV were enumerated from environmental samples by developing a hybridization assay to liquid bead-arrays (Luminex). Oligonucleotide probes targeting a gene encoding a subunit of RNA polymerase (rpoC1) were used simultaneously in multiplexed assays to track Synechococcus diversity from a Pacific Ocean coastal monitoring site and along a coastal to open-ocean transect in the Southern California Bight. The Luminex assay demonstrated that Synechococcus from Clades I and IV were the dominant types at the coastal site throughout the year. Synechococcus from Clades II and III were not detected except during the late summer or early winter. Within the dominant Clades I and IV, rpoC1-defined sub-clades of Synechococcus showed distinct spatial distributions along the coastal to open-ocean transect, coinciding with changes in the nitricline, thermocline, and fluorescence (chlorophyll) maximum depths. In coastal waters, Synechococcus targeted by 2 sub-clade IV probes were dominant at the surface, whereas 2 sub-clade I probes and a third sub-clade IV probe had increased signals in deeper water near the fluorescence maximum. In mesotrophic waters, this third sub-clade IV probe dominated at the fluorescence maximum (depth of 50 to 70 m), whereas all other sub-clade probes were below detection limits. The differing distributions of sub-clades within the dominant Synechococcus clades indicate that the sub-clades likely have adapted to distinct ecological niches found within the Southern California Bight.	2011	10.3354/meps09030
Porri, F; Hill, JM; McQuaid, CD	Associations in ephemeral systems: the lack of trophic relationships between sandhoppers and beach wrack	MARINE ECOLOGY PROGRESS SERIES	In ephemeral systems, material subsidies can play a key role in the persistence and connectivity of populations, especially if the organisms living within them are trophically dependent on imported resources. Sandy beaches are heavily subsidized by organic material of both terrestrial and marine origin. For highly mobile supratidal fringe species, such as amphipods, which are marine but with a high tolerance of aerial conditions, such material potentially provides both food and shelter. We investigated the relationship between beach wrack and amphipods by examining the trophic contribution of allochthonous food sources to sandhopper diets using stable isotope analysis. Replicate samples of the sandhopper Talorchestia capensis and several types of beach wrack (including seagrass, wood and different macrophytes) colonized by these amphipods were collected from 11 sites within one biogeographical region along the south coast of South Africa. Analysis of variance showed that the delta C-13 and delta N-15 signatures of sandhoppers were significantly affected by the type of wrack with which they were associated, but stable isotope mixing models showed that there was no close relationship between T. capensis diet and the material under which they were found. Thus sandhopper isotope signatures differed with wrack type, but were not clearly derived from wrack. This was interpreted as an indication that amphipod feeding was extremely opportunistic, with different sandhopper populations feeding at different trophic levels (based on delta N-15 signatures) and obtaining their delta C-13 signatures from material associated with specific wrack types, rather than directly from the wrack itself or from imported suspended particulate material. These results suggest alternative links in sandy beach food webs, with amphipods obtaining their carbon indirectly from wrack via bacterial communities that are specific to different types of imported material.	2011	10.3354/meps08951
Bakke, BB; Wilson, R; Rudi, K	Prevalence and dispersal of a facultative bacterial symbiont associated with an endemic metazoan host	PEDOBIOLOGIA	Co-dispersal is of primary importance in symbiotic relations between macro- and micro-organisms. Obligate symbionts generally follow the same dispersal pattern as their host, while it still remains unresolved whether hosts and their facultative symbionts follow the same dispersal patterns. Here we addressed the question of symbiont and host co-dispersal by analyses of the earthworm Lumbricus terrestris, and its facultative bacterial symbiont Verminephrobacter. We analyzed co-dispersal by direct sequence-based typing of the earthworm mitochondrial ND4, and the symbiont adk genes, respectively. A total of 96 earthworms from Norwegian (n = 20), German (n = 20), English (n = 31) and Canadian (n = 25) populations were analyzed. We found that the earthworms were mainly endemic, while the symbiont showed a more complex dispersal pattern. The symbiont showed a significant difference in prevalence between the geographic regions. In addition, we found a low degree of co-evolution between host and symbiont, with some of the symbiont sequence types being globally distributed. Future research, however, is needed to resolve whether the symbiont is truly globally distributed, in contrast to its endemic host. (C) 2011 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.	2011	10.1016/j.pedobi.2010.12.005
Dunlop, JN; Bullen, RD	Habitat use and trophic structure in a microbat assemblage on the edge of the southern rangelands, Western Australia: insights from stable isotope analysis	RANGELAND JOURNAL	The microbat assemblage on Charles Darwin Reserve was investigated between 2007 and 2009 to provide a benchmark for monitoring long-term responses to climate change on a major bioregional boundary, the mulga-eucalypt line. Stable isotope analysis of bat fur was used to interpret the current local habitat and trophic relationships between microbat species with different biogeographical affinities. The stable isotope values of the ants inhabiting 10 broad vegetation types were used to provide an isotopic baseline of the Reserve to assist in the interpretation of the delta C or delta N signatures observed in the bat assemblage. The delta C signatures of ants in both a Salmon Gum woodland and an arid shrubland shifted significantly after the breaking of a prolonged drought but there was no change in the bats. The ubiquitous bat species, and those with south-western affinities, probably used most of the available vegetation types on the Reserve and displayed some significant differences in mean trophic level. Scotorepens balstoni, a species of the southern interior of Western Australia, specialised at foraging within patches of eucalypt woodland. Vespadelus baverstocki, a southern arid zone species, was evidently restricted to the proximal arid habitats with distinctively high delta N signatures.	2011	10.1071/RJ10028
Nakayama, CR; Kuhn, E; Araujo, ACV; Alvala, PC; Ferreira, WJ; Vazoller, RF; Pellizari, VH	Revealing archaeal diversity patterns and methane fluxes in Admiralty Bay, King George Island, and their association to Brazilian Antarctic Station activities	DEEP-SEA RESEARCH PART II-TOPICAL STUDIES IN OCEANOGRAPHY	The study of Antarctic archaeal communities adds information on the biogeography of this group and helps understanding the dynamics of biogenic methane production in such extreme habitats. Molecular methods were combined to methane flux determinations in Martel Inlet, Admiralty Bay, to assess archaeal diversity, to obtain information about contribution of the area to atmospheric methane budget and to detect possible interferences of the Antarctic Brazilian Station Comandante Ferraz (EACF) wastewater discharge on local archaeal communities and methane emissions. Methane fluxes in Martel Inlet ranged from 3.2 to 117.9 mu mol CH(4) m(-2) d(-1), with an average of 51.3 +/- 8.5 mu mol CH(4) m(-2) d(-1) and a median of 57.6 mu mol CH(4) m(-2)d(-1). However, three negative fluxes averaging -11.3 mu mol CH(4) m(-2) d(-1) were detected in MacKellar Inlet, indicating that Admiralty Bay can be either a source or sink of atmospheric methane. Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) showed that archaeal communities at EACF varied with depth and formed a group separated from the reference sites. Granulometric analysis indicated that differences observed may be mostly related to sediment type. However, an influence of wastewater input could not be discarded, since higher methane fluxes were found at CF site. suggesting stimulation of local methanogenesis. DGGE profile of the wastewater sample grouped separated from all other samples, suggesting that methanogenesis stimulation may be due to changes in environmental conditions rather than to the input of allochtonous species from the wastewater. 16S ribosomal DNA clone libraries analysis showed that all wastewater sequences were related to known methanogenic groups belonging to the hydrogenotrophic genera Methanobacterium and Methanobrevibacter and the aceticlastic genus Methanosaeta. EACF and Botany Point sediment clone libraries retrieved only groups of uncultivated Archaea, with predominance of Crenarchaeota representatives (MCG, MG1, MBG-B, MBG-C and MHVG groups). Euryarchaeota sequences found were mostly related to the LDS and RC-V groups, but MBG-D and DHVE-5 were also present. No representatives of cultivated methanogenic groups were found, but coverage estimates suggest that a higher number of clones would have to be analyzed in order to cover the greater archaeal diversity of Martel Inlet sediment. Nevertheless, the analysis of the libraries revealed groups not commonly found by other authors in Antarctic habitats and also indicated the presence of groups of uncultivated archaea previously associated to methane rich environments or to the methane cycle. (C) 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2011	10.1015/j.dsr2.2010.10.013
Ho, CT; Li, CT; Lin, SD	Modeling and Visualizing Information Propagation in a Micro-blogging Platform	2011 INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON ADVANCES IN SOCIAL NETWORKS ANALYSIS AND MINING (ASONAM 2011)	Micro-blogging is a type of social networking service that has become ubiquitous in Web 2.0 era. Micro-blogs allows bloggers to exchange information, discuss ideas, and share experiences with friends or even strangers with similar interests. In this paper, we try to identify ways to measure how information is propagated in micro-blogs. More specifically, we consider the following issues. (1) How to quantify a persons capability to disseminate ideas via a micro-blog. (2) How to measure the extent of propagation of a concept in a micro-blog. (3) How to demonstrate and visualize information propagation in a microblog. We propose methods to effectively measure each users ability to disseminate information via micro-blogs. The design of the measure considers three factors: (a) the number of people influenced; (b) the speed of propagation; and (c) the geographic distance of the propagation. We also provide an online demonstration micro-blog system that allows the users to explore the information propagation. The system shows the propagation paths and social graphs, influence scores, timelines, and geographical information among people for the user-given terms.	2011	10.1109/ASONAM.2011.37
Massana, R	Eukaryotic Picoplankton in Surface Oceans	ANNUAL REVIEW OF MICROBIOLOGY, VOL 65	The eukaryotic picoplankton is a heterogeneous collection of small protists 1 to 3 mu m in size populating surface oceans at abundances of 10(2) to 10(4) cells ml(-1). Pigmented cells are important primary producers that are at the base of food webs. Colorless cells are mostly bacterivores and play key roles in channeling bacteria to higher trophic levels as well as in nutrient recycling. Mixotrophy and parasitism are relevant but less investigated trophic paths. Molecular surveys of picoeukaryotes have unveiled a large phylogenetic diversity and new lineages, and it is critical to understand the ecological and evolutionary significance of this large and novel diversity. A main goal is to assess how individuals are organized in taxonomic units and how they participate in ecological processes. Picoeukaryotes are convincingly integral members of marine ecosystems in terms of cell abundance, biomass, activity, and diversity and they play crucial roles in food webs and biogeochemical cycles.	2011	10.1146/annurev-micro-090110-102903
Romero-Perez, GA; Ominski, KH; McAllister, TA; Krause, DO	Effect of Environmental Factors and Influence of Rumen and Hindgut Biogeography on Bacterial Communities in Steers	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Feces from cattle production are considered important sources of bacterial contamination of food and the environment. Little is known about the combined effects of arctic temperatures and fodder tannins on rumen and hindgut bacterial populations. Individual rumen liquor and rectal fecal samples from donor steers fed either alfalfa silage or sainfoin (Onobrychis viciifolia Scop.) silage and water ad libitum were collected weekly on the first three sampling days and fortnightly afterwards. The daily ambient temperatures were registered and averaged to weekly mean temperatures. Steers fed sainfoin silage had lower (P < 0.05) concentrations of branched-chain volatile fatty acids (VFA) than those fed alfalfa silage. All VFA concentrations were higher (P < 0.001) in rumen liquor samples than in fecal samples. The interaction of sample type and diet showed a significant effect (P < 0.05) on the proportions of the bacterial community that were from the phyla Proteobacteria and Verrucomicrobia. Ambient temperature had an indirect effect (P < 0.05) on the phylum Firmicutes, as it affected its proportional balance. The bacterial population diversity in samples appeared to decrease concurrently with the ambient temperature. The phylum Firmicutes explained the first principal component at 64.83 and 42.58% of the total variance in rumen liquor and fecal samples, respectively. The sample type had a larger effect on bacterial communities than diet and temperature. Certain bacterial populations seemed to be better adapted than others to environmentally adverse conditions, such as less access time to nutrients due to higher motility and rate of passage of digesta caused by extreme temperatures, or antimicrobials such as tannins, possibly due to an influence of their biogeographical location within the gut.	2011	10.1128/AEM.01289-09
Yang, JK; Sun, J; Lee, OO; Wong, YH; Qian, PY	Phylogenetic diversity and community structure of sponge-associated bacteria from mangroves of the Caribbean Sea	AQUATIC MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	To gain insight into the species richness and phylogeny of the microbial communities associated with sponges in mangroves, we performed an extensive phylogenetic analysis, based on terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism profiling and 16S ribosomal RNA gene sequences, of the 4 sponge species Aplysina fulva, Haliclona hogarthi, Tedania ignis and Ircinia strobilina as well as of ambient seawater. The sponge-associated bacterial communities contained 13 phyla, including Poribacteria and an unclassified group not found in the ambient seawater community, 98% of which comprised Proteobacteria, Cyanobacteria and Bacteroidetes. Although the sponges themselves were phylogenetically distant and bacterial community variation within the host species was observed, microbial phyla such as Proteobacteria, Acidobacteria, Chloroflexi and the unclassified group were consistently observed as the dominant populations within the communities. The sponge-associated bacterial communities resident in the Caribbean Sea mangroves are phylogenetically similar but significantly distinct from communities found in other biogeographical sites such as the deep-water environments of the Caribbean Sea, the South China Sea and Australia. The interspecific variation within the host species and the distinct biogeographical characteristics that the sponge-associated bacteria exhibited indicate that the acquisition, establishment and formation of functional sponge-associated bacterial communities may initially be the product of both vertical and horizontal transmission, and is then shaped by the internal environment created by the sponge species and certain external environmental factors.	2011	10.3354/ame01473
Keiser, AD; Strickland, MS; Fierer, N; Bradford, MA	The effect of resource history on the functioning of soil microbial communities is maintained across time	BIOGEOSCIENCES	Historical resource conditions appear to influence microbial community function. With time, historical influences might diminish as populations respond to the contemporary environment. Alternatively, they may persist given factors such as contrasting genetic potentials for adaptation to a new environment. Using experimental microcosms, we test competing hypotheses that function of distinct soil microbial communities in common environments (H1(a)) converge or (H1(b)) remain dissimilar over time. Using a 6 x 2 (soil community inoculum x litter environment) full-factorial design, we compare decomposition rates in experimental microcosms containing grass or hardwood litter environments. After 100 days, communities that develop are inoculated into fresh litters and decomposition followed for another 100 days. We repeat this for a third, 100-day period. In each successive, 100-day period, we find higher decomposition rates (i.e. functioning) suggesting communities function better when they have an experimental history of the contemporary environment. Despite these functional gains, differences in decomposition rates among initially distinct communities persist, supporting the hypothesis that dissimilarity is maintained across time. In contrast to function, community composition is more similar following a common, experimental history. We also find that specialization on one experimental environment incurs a cost, with loss of function in the alternate environment. For example, experimental history of a grass-litter environment reduced decomposition when communities were inoculated into a hardwood-litter environment. Our work demonstrates experimentally that despite expectations of fast growth rates, physiological flexibility and rapid evolution, initial functional differences between microbial communities are maintained across time. These findings question whether microbial dynamics can be omitted from models of ecosystem processes if we are to predict reliably global change effects on biogeochemical cycles.	2011	10.5194/bg-8-1477-2011
Hovatter, SR; Dejelo, C; Case, AL; Blackwood, CB	Metacommunity organization of soil microorganisms depends on habitat defined by presence of Lobelia siphilitica plants	ECOLOGY	We tested regional-scale spatial patterns in soil microbial community composition for agreement with species sorting and dispersal limitation, two alternative mechanisms behind different models of metacommunity organization. Furthermore, we tested whether regional metacommunity organization depends on local habitat type. We sampled from sites across Ohio and West Virginia hosting populations of Lobelia siphilitica, and compared the metacommunity organization of soil microbial communities under L. siphilitica to those in adjacent areas at each site. In the absence of L. siphilitica, bacterial community composition across the region was consistent with species sorting. However, under L. siphilitica, bacterial community composition was consistent with dispersal limitation. Fungal community composition remained largely unexplained, although fungal communities under L. siphilitica were both significantly different in composition and less variable in composition than in adjacent areas. Our results show that communities in different local habitat types (e. g., in the presence or absence of a particular plant) may be structured on a regional scale by different processes, despite being separated by only centimeters at the local scale.	2011	10.1890/10-0332.1
Chau, JF; Bagtzoglou, AC; Willig, MR	The Effect of Soil Texture on Richness and Diversity of Bacterial Communities	ENVIRONMENTAL FORENSICS	Bacterial diversity in soil is high relative to more homogeneous environments (e. g., freshwater or marine habitats). Isolation imparted by fragmented aquatic microhabitats in unsaturated soil likely plays a large role in creating this diversity. We evaluate the role of soil texture, which determines the extent and connectivity of microhabitats, in constraining bacterial diversity. Soil samples with a range of textures were collected from sixteen sites across Connecticut and Massachusetts. Soil particle size distributions were measured to determine soil texture (% sand, % silt and % clay). Soil chemical characteristics (e. g., pH, %, % N) that might influence diversity were quantified for each site. Terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) analysis was performed to characterize the diversity (richness, Shannons H, and evenness) of soil bacterial communities. Bacterial species richness increased significantly (p = 0.04) with the coarseness of the soil, quantified as % sand. No trend in H or E were observed; all communities exhibited high diversity and evenness. The increase in species richness in coarser soils is likely due to the increased number of isolated water films in soils with larger pores, suggesting that pore-scale hydrologic regime constrains bacterial richness in soil.	2011	10.1080/15275922.2011.622348
Nemergut, DR; Costello, EK; Hamady, M; Lozupone, C; Jiang, L; Schmidt, SK; Fierer, N; Townsend, AR; Cleveland, CC; Stanish, L; Knight, R	Global patterns in the biogeography of bacterial taxa	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	P>Bacteria control major nutrient cycles and directly influence plant, animal and human health. However, we know relatively little about the forces shaping their large-scale ecological ranges. Here, we reveal patterns in the distribution of individual bacterial taxa at multiple levels of phylogenetic resolution within and between Earths major habitat types. Our analyses suggest that while macro-scale habitats structure bacterial distribution to some degree, abundant bacteria (i.e. detectable using 16S rRNA gene sequencing methods) are confined to single assemblages. Additionally, we show that the most cosmopolitan taxa are also the most abundant in individual assemblages. These results add to the growing body of data that support that the diversity of the overall bacterial metagenome is tremendous. The mechanisms governing microbial distribution remain poorly understood, but our analyses provide a framework with which to test the importance of macro-ecological environmental gradients, relative abundance, neutral processes and the ecological strategies of individual taxa in structuring microbial communities.	2011	10.1111/j.1462-2920.2010.02315.x
van der Gast, CJ; Gosling, P; Tiwari, B; Bending, GD	Spatial scaling of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungal diversity is affected by farming practice	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	P>Evidence suggests that microbial communities show patterns of spatial scaling which can be driven by geographical distance and environmental heterogeneity. Here we demonstrate that human management can have a major impact on microbial distribution patterns at both the local and landscape scale. Mycorrhizal fungi are vital components of terrestrial ecosystems, forming a mutualistic symbiosis with plant roots which has a major impact on above ground ecology and productivity. We used contrasting agricultural systems to investigate the spatial scaling of the most widespread mycorrhizal fungus group, the arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF). Using multiple sampling sites with a maximum separation of 250 km we describe for the first time the roles which land management, environmental heterogeneity and geographical distance play in determining spatial patterns of microbial distribution. Analysis of AMF taxa-area relationships at each sampling site revealed that AMF diversity and spatial turnover was greater under organic relative to conventional farm management. At the regional scale (250 km) distance-decay analyses showed that there was significant change in AMF community composition with distance, and that this was greater under organic relative to conventional management. Environmental heterogeneity was found to be the major factor determining turnover of AMF taxa at the landscape scale. Overall we demonstrate that human management can play a key role in determining the turnover of microbial communities at both the local and regional scales.	2011	10.1111/j.1462-2920.2010.02326.x
Sharma, NK; Rai, AK	Biodiversity and biogeography of microalgae: progress and pitfalls	ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEWS	The role of microbial diversity in ecosystem functioning is becoming increasingly recognized. Microalgae are a large group of organisms that are extremely diverse and heterogeneous from evolutionary and ecological viewpoints. However, estimates of their diversity are nebulous and require substantial input from systematics, dispersal analyses, and biogeography. Our generally poor understanding of microalgal biogeography has generated several hypotheses. According to one view, microalgae are cosmopolitan. However, use of advanced morphometric and molecular techniques suggest a restricted distribution (i.e., endemism) for many microalgae that were previously considered as cosmopolitan. The quest to have an exclusive theory of microalgal biogeography depends upon efforts to solve the problems related with appropriate taxonomic unit, genotype-morphospecies relationship, extent of synonymy in known species, degree of coexistence of endemic and cosmopolitan species, reasons for apparent restricted distribution, and the relative importance of sympatric speciation in genotype variations. This review discusses microalgal diversity from a biogeographical perspective, which, in turn, is analyzed in the light of empirical evidence available for the group. Also discussed are the arguments emerging from ongoing debates on the biogeography of other microorganisms. In addition to their immense ecological importance, microalgae have emerged as a potential source for a range of precious products including neutraceuticals, energy, and therapeutic drugs. Therefore, an understanding of their diversity and spatial distribution is crucial for formulating the conservation strategies for the group.	2011	10.1139/A10-020
Kaye, JZ; Sylvan, JB; Edwards, KJ; Baross, JA	Halomonas and Marinobacter ecotypes from hydrothermal vent, subseafloor and deep-sea environments	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Moderately halophilic and euryhaline bacteria are routinely found in cool to warm hydrothermal vent and nearby cold, deep-sea environments. To elucidate the diversity of these microorganisms - with the goal of determining which among them constitute ecotypes specifically associated with hydrothermal vent and subseafloor habitats - PCR primers were designed to detect natural populations of euryhaline Gammaproteobacteria belonging to the cosmopolitan genera Halomonas and Marinobacter. The distribution patterns of 16S rRNA gene sequence data revealed that Halomonas group 2A comprised a subseafloor population at Axial Seamount on the Juan de Fuca Ridge. Complementary biogeographic and physiological data suggested that other Halomonas clades include members that are cold adapted (Halomonas group 2B) or associated with massive sulfide deposits (Halomonas group 2C). Similarly, a monophyletic Marinobacter clade may represent Fe2+-oxidizing facultative chemoautotrophs based on the phylogenetic data presented here and previously reported phenotypic characterizations. The biogeographic distributions of Halomonas and Marinobacter isolates and clones reveal that these are cosmopolitan genera, commonly found in the deep sea and in hydrothermal vent settings. As such, they are good candidates for further laboratory investigations into the biogeochemical processes in these environments.	2011	10.1111/j.1574-6941.2010.00984.x
Queloz, V; Sieber, TN; Holdenrieder, O; McDonald, BA; Grunig, CR	No biogeographical pattern for a root-associated fungal species complex	GLOBAL ECOLOGY AND BIOGEOGRAPHY	Aim The biogeography of microbes is poorly understood and there is an open debate regarding if and how microbial biodiversity is structured. At the beginning of the 20th century, Baas Becking laid the foundations for the biogeography of microbes by stating that Everything is everywhere, but the environment selects (the EisE hypothesis). This hypothesis remained dogma for almost a century. However, the recognition that microbial species are often assemblages of reproductively isolated lineages challenged the EisE hypothesis, leading to the now common assumption that microbial communities possess cryptic biogeographic structures. We tested the presence of a cryptic biogeographical structure for a well-characterized fungal species complex (the Phialocephala fortinii s.l.-Acephala applanata species complex, PAC) using precise molecular species resolution. In addition, we analysed factors that could govern PAC community assembling. Locations Forty-four study sites in temperate and boreal forests across the Northern Hemisphere were included. Methods (1) The distance-decay relationship among PAC communities was calculated and a resampling procedure was applied to analyse the effect of sampling intensity and geographic distances among PAC communities. (2) Factors shaping PAC communities (e.g. climatic factors and tree species composition) were studied. (3) We tested PAC communities for random composition. Results We found that the similarity of species assemblages did not decrease with increasing geographical distance. Moreover, species diversity did not increase by expanding the area sampled. Instead, species diversity increased by increasing the sampling effort. Community composition correlated neither with tree species composition nor climate, and no association among species was observed. Main conclusions We could not discover any cryptic biogeographic structure even after applying refined species assignment but we demonstrate the importance of sampling effort for understanding the biogeography of microorganisms. Moreover, we show that primarily stochastic effects are responsible for the species composition of PAC communities.	2011	10.1111/j.1466-8238.2010.00589.x
Choudhary, DK; Johri, BN	Ecological Significance of Microdiversity: Coexistence Among Casing Soil Bacterial Strains Through Allocation of Nutritional Resource	INDIAN JOURNAL OF MICROBIOLOGY	A combination of cultivation-based methods with a molecular biological approach was employed to investigate whether bacteria with identical 16S rRNA gene sequences can represent distinct eco- and genotypes. A set of eight bacterial strains wherein three were Pseudomonas putida and rest were Acinetobacter calcoaceticus, were isolated from casing soils community by conventional plating. These strains had identical 16S rRNA gene sequences and represented the dominant phylotype in the plateable fraction. Each strain utilized a specific combination of 154 carbon substrates, and the niche overlap indices were low, suggesting that each strain occupied a different ecological niche. Our results have implications for assessment of the diversity and biogeography of bacteria and increase the perception of natural diversity beyond the level of 16S rRNA gene sequences. It is worthwhile approach to explore prokaryotic diversity in different ecological niches.	2011	10.1007/s12088-011-0068-7
Thorne, N; Borrell, S; Evans, J; Magee, J; de Viedma, DG; Bishop, C; Gonzalez-Martin, J; Gharbia, S; Arnold, C	IS6110-based global phylogeny of Mycobacterium tuberculosis	INFECTION GENETICS AND EVOLUTION	IS6110, a Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex species-specific insertion element, is targeted primarily for DNA fingerprinting of M. tuberculosis strains. The number and chromosomal positions of copies of this element have been found to be highly variable between unrelated strains and have been exploited for molecular epidemiological purpose but the utility of IS6110 as an informative marker of strain phylogeny has yet to be demonstrated. In the current study, a recently proposed IS6110-targetting PCR based typing methodology, fluorescent amplified fragment length polymorphism (fAFLP) was applied to a global panel of 166 of the clinically more predominant modern strains characterised by spoligotype and, where available, Variable Number Tandem Repeat (VNTR) to identify potentially evolutionarily informative common fragments that could define strains as belonging to established genetic lineages. These common fragments are hereby proposed to be ancestral insertion sites present in common ancestors of these strains rather than preferential insertion sites or hot spots. Results indicate that the exact same spoligotype and VNTR-defined lineages are reflected in the fragment patterns but with greater resolution and are able to clearly define the very distinct Haarlem, LAM, X and also the currently ill-defined T and S and lineages and spoligotypes designated as U, or unknown, without ambiguity. The biogeographical patterns generated reflect the migration of mankind across the globe and indicate that only four successful clones (or individual bacteria) gave rise to virtually all of the tuberculosis in Europe and the Americas. Potential lies in the application of the data to determine IS6110 evolutionary events that have occurred during the evolution of these lineages. (C) 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2011	10.1016/j.meegid.2010.09.011
Edwards, A; Anesio, AM; Rassner, SM; Sattler, B; Hubbard, B; Perkins, WT; Young, M; Griffith, GW	Possible interactions between bacterial diversity, microbial activity and supraglacial hydrology of cryoconite holes in Svalbard	ISME JOURNAL	The diversity of highly active bacterial communities in cryoconite holes on three Arctic glaciers in Svalbard was investigated using terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) of the 16S rRNA locus. Construction and sequencing of clone libraries allowed several members of these communities to be identified, with Proteobacteria being the dominant one, followed by Cyanobacteria and Bacteroidetes. T-RFLP data revealed significantly different communities in holes on the (cold) valley glacier Austre Broggerbreen relative to two adjacent (polythermal) valley glaciers, Midtre Lovenbreen and Vestre Broggerbreen. These population compositions correlate with differences in organic matter content, temperature and the metabolic activity of microbial communities concerned. No within-glacier spatial patterns were observed in the communities identified over the 2-year period and with the 1 km-spaced sampling. We infer that surface hydrology is an important factor in the development of cryoconite bacterial communities. The ISME Journal (2011) 5, 150-160; doi:10.1038/ismej.2010.100; published online 22 July 2010	2011	10.1038/ismej.2010.100
Abe, H; Sato-Okoshi, W; Endo, Y	Seasonal changes of planktonic polychaete larvae and chlorophyll a concentration in Onagawa Bay, northeastern Japan	ITALIAN JOURNAL OF ZOOLOGY	Seasonal changes of abundance and composition of planktonic polychaete larvae were investigated monthly from January 2007 to December 2009 in Onagawa Bay, northeastern Japan. Larvae belonging to 18 families were identified: Spionidae, Serpulidae, Nephtyidae, Magelonidae, Phyllodocidae, Polynoidae, Syllidae, Capitellidae, Nereididae, Terebellidae, Arenicolidae, Chaetopteridae, Oweniidae, Pectinariidae, Glyceridae, Dorvilleidae, Sabellidae, and Lumbrineridae. The density of polychaete larvae varied from 18 to 6901 ind m(-3). Spionid larvae occurred throughout the year, being the dominant family throughout the year, comprising 88.7% of the total, with those belonging to genus Polydora dominant during winter to spring and Pseudopolydora during summer to autumn. Larvae belonging to the Serpulidae, Magelonidae, Nephtyidae, Phyllodocidae, and Polynoidae tended to be frequent in summer and autumn. The close timing between phytoplankton blooms and the production of planktonic polychaete larvae is discussed, and it is noted that most planktonic polychaete larvae tended to synchronize with summer phytoplankton increases and autumn blooms in the near-surface water, but not with spring blooms. One possible explanation is the diversity of food during summer to autumn in Onagawa Bay. Only larvae belonging to the genus Polydora were synchronized with spring phytoplankton blooms, perhaps reflecting their northern biogeographic origin.	2011	10.1080/11250003.2011.576037
Stressmann, FA; Rogers, GB; Klem, ER; Lilley, AK; Donaldson, SH; Daniels, TW; Carroll, MP; Patel, N; Forbes, B; Boucher, RC; Wolfgang, MC; Bruce, KD	Analysis of the Bacterial Communities Present in Lungs of Patients with Cystic Fibrosis from American and British Centers	JOURNAL OF CLINICAL MICROBIOLOGY	The aim of this study was to determine whether geographical differences impact the composition of bacterial communities present in the airways of cystic fibrosis (CF) patients attending CF centers in the United States or United Kingdom. Thirty-eight patients were matched on the basis of clinical parameters into 19 pairs comprised of one U. S. and one United Kingdom patient. Analysis was performed to determine what, if any, bacterial correlates could be identified. Two culture-independent strategies were used: terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) profiling and 16S rRNA clone sequencing. Overall, 73 different terminal restriction fragment lengths were detected, ranging from 2 to 10 for U. S. and 2 to 15 for United Kingdom patients. The statistical analysis of T-RFLP data indicated that patient pairing was successful and revealed substantial transatlantic similarities in the bacterial communities. A small number of bands was present in the vast majority of patients in both locations, indicating that these are species common to the CF lung. Clone sequence analysis also revealed that a number of species not traditionally associated with the CF lung were present in both sample groups. The species number per sample was similar, but differences in species presence were observed between sample groups. Cluster analysis revealed geographical differences in bacterial presence and relative species abundance. Overall, the U.S. samples showed tighter clustering with each other compared to that of United Kingdom samples, which may reflect the lower diversity detected in the U.S. sample group. The impact of cross-infection and biogeography is considered, and the implications for treating CF lung infections also are discussed.	2011	10.1128/JCM.01650-10
Romeralo, M; Moya-Larano, J; Lado, C	Social Amoebae: Environmental Factors Influencing Their Distribution and Diversity Across South-Western Europe	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	The social amoebae (dictyostelids) are the only truly multicellular lineage within the superkingdom Amoebozoa, the sister group to Ophistokonts (Metazoa+Fungi). Despite the exceptional phylogenetic and evolutionary value of this taxon, the environmental factors that determine their distribution and diversity are largely unknown. We have applied statistical modeling to a set of data obtained from an extensive and detailed survey in the south-western of Europe (The Iberian Peninsula including Spain and Portugal) in order to estimate some of the main environmental factors influencing the distribution and diversity of dictyostelid in temperate climates. It is the first time that this methodology is applied to the study of this unique group of soil microorganisms. Our results show that a combination of climatic (temperature, water availability), physical (pH) and vegetation (species richness) factors favor dictyostelid species richness. In the Iberian Peninsula, dictyostelid diversity is highest in colder and wet environments, indicating that this group has likely diversified in relatively cold places with high levels of water availability.	2011	10.1007/s00248-010-9715-5
Palmero, D; Rodriguez, JM; de Cara, M; Camacho, F; Iglesias, C; Tello, JC	Prevalence of plant pathogenic isolates of airborne Fusarium species in south east coast of Spain	MICROORGANISMS IN INDUSTRY AND ENVIRONMENT: FROM SCIENTIFIC AND INDUSTRIAL RESEARCH TO CONSUMER PRODUCTS	The prevalence of airborne Fusarium species was determined in the South East coast of Spain. Air-dust (down fall dust) was collected during September 2007, July, August and October 2008. Five different Fusarium species were isolated from the dust: Fusarium oxysporum, F. solani, F. equiseti, F. dimerum, and F. proliferatum. Pathogenicity assays were conducted with 17 of the collected isolates of Fusarium species: eigth isolates of F. solani, four of F. oxysporum, three of F. equiseti, and two isoaltes of F. proliferatum. Results show differences in the pathogenicity of the isolates tested. Little pathogenicity was observed on sorghum caused by F. oxysporum, F. proliferatum and F. equiseti, but three of the isolates of F. solani produced an extensive pre-emergence damping off on sorghum. On Brassica napus L., three isolates of F.solani, two isolate of F. equiseti and F. oxysporum and one isolate of F. proliferatum caused significant decrease in seedling emergence. Almost all plants showed root rot when they were inoculated with different species of Fusarium, althought fresh weights did not bring any information about the pathogenicity. The evidence of long distance aerial dispersal of pathogenic strains of Fusarium species has to be taken into account as survival strategy for plant pathogens within the population dynamics as well as for plant protection strategies. Fusarium spores dispersed by wind from infected crops to new cultivated areas may overcome effective ressistance.	2011	
Agogue, H; Lamy, D; Neal, PR; Sogin, ML; Herndl, GJ	Water mass-specificity of bacterial communities in the North Atlantic revealed by massively parallel sequencing	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	Bacterial assemblages from subsurface (100 m depth), meso- (200-1000 m depth) and bathy-pelagic (below 1000 m depth) zones at 10 stations along a North Atlantic Ocean transect from 60 degrees N to 5 degrees S were characterized using massively parallel pyrotag sequencing of the V6 region of the 16S rRNA gene (V6 pyrotags). In a dataset of more than 830 000 pyrotags, we identified 10 780 OTUs of which 52% were singletons. The singletons accounted for less than 2% of the OTU abundance, whereas the 100 and 1000 most abundant OTUs represented 80% and 96% respectively of all recovered OTUs. Non-metric Multi-Dimensional Scaling and Canonical Correspondence Analysis of all the OTUs excluding the singletons revealed a clear clustering of the bacterial communities according to the water masses. More than 80% of the 1000 most abundant OTUs corresponded to Proteobacteria of which 55% were Alphaproteobacteria, mostly composed of the SAR11 cluster. Gammaproteobacteria increased with depth and included a relatively large number of OTUs belonging to Alteromonadales and Oceanospirillales. The bathypelagic zone showed higher taxonomic evenness than the overlying waters, albeit bacterial diversity was remarkably variable. Both abundant and low-abundance OTUs were responsible for the distinct bacterial communities characterizing the major deep-water masses. Taken together, our results reveal that deep-water masses act as bio-oceanographic islands for bacterioplankton leading to water mass-specific bacterial communities in the deep waters of the Atlantic.	2011	10.1111/j.1365-294X.2010.04932.x
Rojas, C; Stephenson, SL; Pavlich, M	New additions to the myxobiota of Peru	MYCOSPHERE	Recent efforts to study myxomycetes in many areas of the world have resulted in a considerable increase in the number and quality of regional species lists, especially during the last decade. However, in South America certain countries such as Peru continue to be highly understudied with respect to this group of organisms. During a series of surveys carried out in 2007 in several different areas of Peru, 49 species of myxomycetes not previously known for this country were recorded. Basic ecological information was also collected and analyzed in the context of available data on myxomycetes for the Neotropics. With the new species reported herein, the myxobiota of Peru is increased to 80 species, which is still a low number when the natural and biogeographical characteristics of Peruvian landscapes are considered.	2011	10.5943/mycosphere/2/5/8
Bahl, J; Lau, MCY; Smith, GJD; Vijaykrishna, D; Cary, SC; Lacap, DC; Lee, CK; Papke, RT; Warren-Rhodes, KA; Wong, FKY; McKay, CP; Pointing, SB	Ancient origins determine global biogeography of hot and cold desert cyanobacteria	NATURE COMMUNICATIONS	Factors governing large-scale spatio-temporal distribution of microorganisms remain unresolved, yet are pivotal to understanding ecosystem value and function. Molecular genetic analyses have focused on the influence of niche and neutral processes in determining spatial patterns without considering the temporal scale. Here, we use temporal phylogenetic analysis calibrated using microfossil data for a globally sampled desert cyanobacterium, Chroococcidiopsis, to investigate spatio-temporal patterns in microbial biogeography and evolution. Multilocus phylogenetic associations were dependent on contemporary climate with no evidence for distance-related patterns. Massively parallel pyrosequencing of environmental samples confirmed that Chroococcidiopsis variants were specific to either hot or cold deserts. Temporally scaled phylogenetic analyses showed no evidence of recent inter-regional gene flow, indicating populations have not shared common ancestry since before the formation of modern continents. These results indicate that global distribution of desert cyanobacteria has not resulted from widespread contemporary dispersal but is an ancient evolutionary legacy. This highlights the importance of considering temporal scales in microbial biogeography.	2011	10.1038/ncomms1167
Aronson, RB; Thatje, S; McClintock, JB; Hughes, KA	Anthropogenic impacts on marine ecosystems in Antarctica	YEAR IN ECOLOGY AND CONSERVATION BIOLOGY	Antarctica is the most isolated continent on Earth, but it has not escaped the negative impacts of human activity. The unique marine ecosystems of Antarctica and their endemic faunas are affected on local and regional scales by overharvesting, pollution, and the introduction of alien species. Global climate change is also having deleterious impacts: rising sea temperatures and ocean acidification already threaten benthic and pelagic food webs. The Antarctic Treaty System can address local- to regional-scale impacts, but it does not have purview over the global problems that impinge on Antarctica, such as emissions of greenhouse gases. Failure to address human impacts simultaneously at all scales will lead to the degradation of Antarctic marine ecosystems and the homogenization of their composition, structure, and processes with marine ecosystems elsewhere.	2011	10.1111/j.1749-6632.2010.05926.x
Parker, SS	Buried treasure: soil biodiversity and conservation	BIODIVERSITY AND CONSERVATION	Soils are incredibly biodiverse habitats, yet soil-dwelling organisms have received little attention within the field of conservation biology. Due to difficulties involved in studying soil biota, and to taxonomic biases in conservation research, the full extent of soil biodiversity is not well understood, and soil-dwelling organisms are rarely candidates for conservation. The biogeography of soil biota differs significantly from that of plants or animals aboveground, and the taxonomic and functional diversity of soil-dwellers allows them to have a multitude of ecological effects on aboveground organisms. Soil organisms exhibit levels of biodiversity several orders of magnitude greater than those found in their aboveground counterparts on a per-area basis. The biodiversity of soils underpins many crucial ecosystem services which support the plants and animals typically targeted by conservation efforts. Strategies detailed in this paper provide practitioners with the ability to address many of the challenges related to incorporating soils and soil organisms into conservation planning.	2010	10.1007/s10531-010-9924-8
Peay, KG; Garbelotto, M; Bruns, TD	Evidence of dispersal limitation in soil microorganisms: Isolation reduces species richness on mycorrhizal tree islands	ECOLOGY	Dispersal limitation plays an important role in a number of equilibrium and nonequilibrium theories about community ecology. In this study we use the framework of island biogeography to look for evidence of dispersal limitation in ectomycorrhizal fungal assemblages on tree islands, patches of host trees located in a non-host vegetation matrix. Because of the potentially strong effects of island area on species richness and immigration, we chose to control island size by sampling tree islands consisting of a single host individual. Richness on tree islands was high, with estimates ranging up to 42 species of ectomycorrhizal fungi associating with a single host individual. Species richness decreased significantly with increasing isolation of tree islands, with our regression predicting a 50% decrease in species richness when tree islands are located distances of similar to 1 km from large patches of contiguous forests. Despite the fact that fungal fruit bodies produce large numbers of spores with high potential for long-distance travel, these results suggest that dispersal limitation is significant in ectomycorrhizal assemblages. There were no discernible effects of isolation or environment on the species identity of tree island fungal colonists. In contrast to the highly predictable patterns of tree island colonization we observed in a previous study on early successional forests, we suggest that over longer time periods the community assembly process becomes more dominated by stochastic immigration and local extinction events.	2010	10.1890/09-2237.1
Litchman, E	Invisible invaders: non-pathogenic invasive microbes in aquatic and terrestrial ecosystems	ECOLOGY LETTERS	Although the number of studies on invasive plants and animals has risen exponentially, little is known about invasive microbes, especially non-pathogenic ones. Microbial invasions by viruses, bacteria, fungi and protists occur worldwide but are much harder to detect than invasions by macroorganisms. Invasive microbes have the potential to significantly alter community structure and ecosystem functioning in diverse terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems. Consequently, increased attention is needed on non-pathogenic invasive microbes, both free-living and symbiotic, and their impacts on communities and ecosystems. Major unknowns include the characteristics that make microbes invasive and properties of the resident communities and the environment that facilitate invasions. A comparison of microbial invasions with invasions of macroorganisms should provide valuable insights into general principles that apply to invasions across all domains of life and to taxon-specific invasion patterns. Invasive microbes appear to possess traits thought to be common in many invasive macroorganisms: high growth rate and resource utilization efficiency, and superior competitive abilities. Invading microorganisms are often similar to native species, but with enhanced performance traits, and tend to spread in lower diversity communities. Global change can exacerbate microbial invasions; therefore, they will likely increase in the future.	2010	10.1111/j.1461-0248.2010.01544.x
McClintock, JB; Amsler, CD; Baker, BJ	Overview of the Chemical Ecology of Benthic Marine Invertebrates along the Western Antarctic Peninsula	INTEGRATIVE AND COMPARATIVE BIOLOGY	Thirteen years ago in a review that appeared in the American Zoologist, we presented the first survey of the chemical and ecological bioactivity of Antarctic shallow-water marine invertebrates. In essence, we reported that despite theoretical predictions to the contrary the incidence of chemical defenses among sessile and sluggish Antarctic marine invertebrates was widespread. Since that time we and others have significantly expanded upon the base of knowledge of Antarctic marine invertebrates chemical ecology, both from the perspective of examining marine invertebrates in new, distinct geographic provinces, as well as broadening the evaluation of the ecological significance of secondary metabolites. Importantly, many of these studies have been framed within established theoretical constructs, particularly the Optimal Defense Theory. In the present article, we review the current knowledge of chemical ecology of benthic marine invertebrates comprising communities along the Western Antarctic Peninsula (WAP), a region of Antarctica that is both physically and biologically distinct from the rest of the continent. Our overview indicates that, similar to other regions of Antarctica, anti-predator chemical defenses are widespread among species occurring along the WAP. In some groups, such as the sponges, the incidence of chemical defenses against predation is comparable to, or even slightly higher than, that found in tropical marine systems. While there is substantial knowledge of the chemical defenses of benthic marine invertebrates against predators, much less is known about chemical anti-foulants. The sole survey conducted to date suggests that secondary metabolites in benthic sponges are likely to be important in the prevention of fouling by benthic diatoms, yet generally lack activity against marine bacteria. Our understanding of the sensory ecology of Antarctic benthic marine invertebrates, despite its great potential, remains in its infancy. For example, along the WAP, community-level non-consumptive effects occur when amphipods chemically sense fish predators and respond by seeking refuge in chemically-defended macroalgae. Such interactions may be important in releasing amphipods from predation pressure and facilitating their unusually high abundances along the WAP. Moreover, recent studies on the sensory biology of the Antarctic keystone sea star Odontaster validus indicate that chemotactile-mediated interactions between conspecifics and other sympatric predatory sea stars may have significant ramifications in structuring community dynamics. Finally, from a global environmental perspective, understanding how chemical ecology structures marine benthic communities along the WAP must increasingly be viewed in the context of the dramatic impacts of rapid climatic change now occurring in this biogeographic region.	2010	10.1093/icb/icq035
Boyd, ES; Hamilton, TL; Spear, JR; Lavin, M; Peters, JW	[FeFe]-hydrogenase in Yellowstone National Park: evidence for dispersal limitation and phylogenetic niche conservatism	ISME JOURNAL	Hydrogen (H-2) has an important role in the anaerobic degradation of organic carbon and is the basis for many syntrophic interactions that commonly occur in microbial communities. Little is known, however, with regard to the biotic and/or abiotic factors that control the distribution and phylogenetic diversity of organisms which produce H-2 in microbial communities. In this study, we examined the [FeFe]-hydrogenase gene (hydA) as a proxy for fermentative bacterial H-2 production along physical and chemical gradients in various geothermal springs in Yellowstone National Park (YNP), WY, USA. The distribution of hydA in YNP geothermal springs was constrained by pH to environments co-inhabited by oxygenic phototrophs and to environments predicted to have low inputs of abiotic H-2. The individual HydA asssemblages from YNP springs were more closely related when compared with randomly assembled communities, which suggests ecological filtering. Model selection approaches revealed that geographic distance was the best explanatory variable to predict the phylogenetic relatedness of HydA communities. This evinces the dispersal limitation imposed by the geothermal spring environment on HydA phylogenetic diversity even at small spatial scales. pH differences between sites is the second highest ranked explanatory variable of HydA phylogenetic relatedness, which suggests that the ecology related to pH imposes strong phylogenetic niche conservatism. Collectively, these results indicate that pH has imposed strong niche conservatism on fermentative bacteria and that, within a narrow pH realm, YNP springs are dispersal limited with respect to fermentative bacterial communities. The ISME Journal (2010) 4, 1485-1495; doi:10.1038/ismej.2010.76; published online 10 June 2010	2010	10.1038/ismej.2010.76
Jiang, DM; Kato, C; Zhou, XW; Wu, ZH; Sato, T; Li, YZ	Phylogeographic separation of marine and soil myxobacteria at high levels of classification	ISME JOURNAL	Microorganisms are globally dispersed and are able to proliferate in any habitat that supports their lifestyles, which, however, has not yet been explored in any specific microbial taxon. The social myxobacteria are considered typical soil bacteria because they have been identified in various terrestrial samples, a few in coastal areas, but none in other oceanic environments. To explore the prevalence of marine myxobacteria and to investigate their phylogenetic relationships with their terrestrial counterparts, we established myxobacteria-enriched libraries of 16S rRNA gene sequences from four deep-sea sediments collected at depths from 853 to 4675 m and a hydrothermal vent at a depth of 204 m. In all, 68 different myxobacteria-related sequences were identified from randomly sequenced clones of the libraries of different samples. These myxobacterial sequences were diverse but phylogenetically similar at different locations and depths. However, they were separated from terrestrial myxobacteria at high levels of classification. This discovery indicates that the marine myxobacteria are phylogeographically separated from their terrestrial relatives, likely because of geographic separation and environment selection. The ISME Journal (2010) 4, 1520-1530; doi:10.1038/ismej.2010.84; published online 1 July 2010	2010	10.1038/ismej.2010.84
Womack, AM; Bohannan, BJM; Green, JL	Biodiversity and biogeography of the atmosphere	PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY B-BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES	The variation of life has predominantly been studied on land and in water, but this focus is changing. There is a resurging interest in the distribution of life in the atmosphere and the processes that underlie patterns in this distribution. Here, we review our current state of knowledge about the biodiversity and biogeography of the atmosphere, with an emphasis on micro-organisms, the numerically dominant forms of aerial life. We present evidence to suggest that the atmosphere is a habitat for micro-organisms, and not purely a conduit for terrestrial and aquatic life. Building on a rich history of research in terrestrial and aquatic systems, we explore biodiversity patterns that are likely to play an important role in the emerging field of air biogeography. We discuss the possibility of a more unified understanding of the biosphere, one that links knowledge about biodiversity and biogeography in the lithosphere, hydrosphere and atmosphere.	2010	10.1098/rstb.2010.0283
Warren, PB	Biodiversity on island chains: Neutral model simulations	PHYSICAL REVIEW E	A neutral ecology model is simulated on an island chain, in which neighboring islands can exchange individuals but only the first island is able to receive immigrants from a metacommunity. It is found by several measures that alpha-diversity decreases along the chain. Subtle changes in taxon abundance distributions can be detected when islands in the chain are compared to diversity-matched single islands. The island chain is found to have unexpectedly rich dynamics. Significant beta-diversity correlations are found between islands in the chain, which are absent between diversity-matched single islands. The results potentially apply to human microbial biodiversity and biogeography and suggest that measurements of interindividual and intraindividual beta-diversity may give insights into microbial community assembly mechanisms.	2010	10.1103/PhysRevE.82.051922
Zuluaga-Montero, A; Ramirez-Camejo, L; Rauscher, J; Bayman, P	Marine isolates of Aspergillus flavus: Denizens of the deep or lost at sea?	FUNGAL ECOLOGY	Most fungal species from marine environments also live on land. It is not clear whether these fungi reach the sea from terrestrial sources as spores or other propagules, or if there are separate ecotypes that live and reproduce in the sea. The emergence of marine diseases has created an urgency to understand the distribution of these fungi. Aspergillus flavus is ubiquitous in both terrestrial and marine environments. This species is an opportunistic pathogen in many hosts, making it a good model to study the relationship between genetic diversity and specificity of marine fungi. In this study, an intraspecific phylogeny of A. flavus isolates based on Amplified Fragment Length Polymorphisms (AFLPs) was used to determine if terrestrial and marine isolates form discrete populations, and to determine if phylogeny predicts substratum specificity. Results suggest lack of population structure in A. flavus. All isolates may compose a single population, with no clade particular to marine environments. (C) 2010 Elsevier Ltd and The British Mycological Society. All rights reserved.	2010	10.1016/j.funeco.2010.05.003
Snyder, JC; Bateson, MM; Lavin, M; Young, MJ	Use of Cellular CRISPR (Clusters of Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats) Spacer-Based Microarrays for Detection of Viruses in Environmental Samples	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	It is currently difficult to detect unknown viruses in any given environment. The recent discovery of CRISPR (clusters of regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats) loci within bacterial and archaeal cellular genomes may provide an alternative approach to detect new viruses. It has been shown that the spacer sequences between the direct repeat units of the CRISPR loci are often derived from viruses and likely function as guide sequences to protect the cell from viral infection. The spacer sequences within the CRISPR loci may therefore serve as a record of the viruses that have replicated within the cell. We have cataloged the CRISPR spacer sequences from cellular metagenomic data from high-temperature (>80 degrees C), acidic (pH < 4) hot spring environments located in Yellowstone National Park (YNP). We designed a microarray platform utilizing these CRISPR spacer sequences as potential probes to detect viruses present in YNP hot spring environments. We show that this microarray approach can detect viral sequences directly from virus-enriched environmental samples, detecting new viruses which have not been previously characterized. We further demonstrated that this microarray approach can be used to examine temporal changes in viral populations within the environment. Our results demonstrate that CRISPR spacer sequence-based microarrays will be useful tools for detecting and monitoring viruses from diverse environmental samples.	2010	10.1128/AEM.01109-10
Pan, Y; Bodrossy, L; Frenzel, P; Hestnes, AG; Krause, S; Luke, C; Meima-Franke, M; Siljanen, H; Svenning, MM; Bodelier, PLE	Impacts of Inter- and Intralaboratory Variations on the Reproducibility of Microbial Community Analyses	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	With the advent of molecular biological techniques, especially next-generation sequencing and metagenomics, the number of microbial biogeography studies is rapidly increasing. However, these studies involve the synthesis of data generated by different laboratories using different protocols, chemicals, etc., all with inherent biases. The aim of this study was to assess inter-as well as intralaboratory variations in microbial community composition when standardized protocols are applied to a single soil sample. Aliquots from a homogenized soil sample from a rice field in Italy were sent to five participating laboratories. DNA was extracted by two investigators per laboratory using an identical protocol. All DNA samples were sent to one laboratory to perform DNA quantification, quantitative PCR (QPCR), and microarray and denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) analyses of methanotrophic communities. Yields, as well as purity of DNA, were significantly different between laboratories but in some cases also between investigators within the same laboratory. The differences in yield and quality of the extracted DNA were reflected in QPCR, microarray, and DGGE analysis results. Diversity indices (Shannon-Wiener, evenness, and richness) differed significantly between laboratories. The observed differences have implications for every project in which microbial communities are compared in different habitats, even if assessed within the same laboratory. To be able to make sensible comparisons leading to valid conclusions, intralaboratory variation should be assessed. Standardization of DNA extraction protocols and possible use of internal standards in interlaboratory comparisons may help in rendering a quantifiable bias.	2010	10.1128/AEM.01595-10
Redford, AJ; Bowers, RM; Knight, R; Linhart, Y; Fierer, N	The ecology of the phyllosphere: geographic and phylogenetic variability in the distribution of bacteria on tree leaves	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	P>Large populations of bacteria live on leaf surfaces and these phyllosphere bacteria can have important effects on plant health. However, we currently have a limited understanding of bacterial diversity on tree leaves and the inter- and intra-specific variability in phyllosphere community structure. We used a barcoded pyrosequencing technique to characterize the bacterial communities from leaves of 56 tree species in Boulder, Colorado, USA, quantifying the intra- and inter-individual variability in the bacterial communities from 10 of these species. We also examined the geographic variability in phyllosphere communities on Pinus ponderosa from several locations across the globe. Individual tree species harboured high levels of bacterial diversity and there was considerable variability in community composition between trees. The bacterial communities were organized in patterns predictable from the relatedness of the trees as there was significant correspondence between tree phylogeny and bacterial community phylogeny. Inter-specific variability in bacterial community composition exceeded intra-specific variability, a pattern that held even across continents where we observed minimal geographic differentiation in the bacterial communities on P. ponderosa needles.	2010	10.1111/j.1462-2920.2010.02258.x
Chu, HY; Fierer, N; Lauber, CL; Caporaso, JG; Knight, R; Grogan, P	Soil bacterial diversity in the Arctic is not fundamentally different from that found in other biomes	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	P>The severe environmental stresses of the Arctic may have promoted unique soil bacterial communities compared with those found in lower latitude environments. Here, we present a comprehensive analysis of the biogeography of soil bacterial communities in the Arctic using a high resolution bar-coded pyrosequencing technique. We also compared arctic soils with soils from a wide range of more temperate biomes to characterize variability in soil bacterial communities across the globe. We show that arctic soil bacterial community composition and diversity are structured according to local variation in soil pH rather than geographical proximity to neighboring sites, suggesting that local environmental heterogeneity is far more important than dispersal limitation in determining community-level differences. Furthermore, bacterial community composition had similar levels of variability, richness and phylogenetic diversity within arctic soils as across soils from a wide range of lower latitudes, strongly suggesting a common diversity structure within soil bacterial communities around the globe. These results contrast with the well-established latitudinal gradients in animal and plant diversity, suggesting that the controls on bacterial community distributions are fundamentally different from those observed for macro-organisms and that our biome definitions are not useful for predicting variability in soil bacterial communities across the globe.	2010	10.1111/j.1462-2920.2010.02277.x
Sapp, M; Parker, ER; Teal, LR; Schratzberger, M	Advancing the understanding of biogeography-diversity relationships of benthic microorganisms in the North Sea	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Knowledge on the spatial distribution of prokaryotic taxa is an essential basis to understand microbial diversity and the factors shaping its patterns. Large-scale patterns of faunal distribution are thought to be influenced by physical environmental factors, whereas smaller scale spatial heterogeneity is maintained by species-specific life-history characteristics, the quantity and quality of food sources and local disturbances including both natural and man-induced events. However, it is still not clear which environmental parameters control the diversity and community structure of sedimentary microorganisms mediating important ecosystem processes. In this study, multiscale patterns were elucidated at seven stations in the Oyster Ground, North Sea (54 degrees 4N/4 degrees E), 100 m to 11 km apart. These were related to biotic (e.g. multicellular organisms) and abiotic parameters (e.g. organic carbon content in the sediment) to establish the relationship between the distribution of both bacterial and archaeal communities and their environment. A relatively high variability was detected at all scales for bacterial and archaeal communities, both of which were controlled by different suites of biotic and abiotic environmental variables. The bacterial community consisted mainly of members belonging to the Gammaproteobacteria and the Fibrobacteres/Acidobacteria group. Members of the Deltaproteobacteria, Bacteroidetes and Actinobacteria also contributed to the bacterial community. Euryarchaeota formed the majority of archaeal phylotypes together with three phylotypes belonging to the Crenarchaeota.	2010	10.1111/j.1574-6941.2010.00957.x
Hu, AY; Yao, TD; Jiao, NZ; Liu, YQ; Yang, Z; Liu, XB	Community structures of ammonia-oxidising archaea and bacteria in high-altitude lakes on the Tibetan Plateau	FRESHWATER BIOLOGY	P>1. Community structures of planktonic ammonia-oxidising archaea (AOA) and bacteria (AOB) were investigated for five high-altitude Tibetan lakes, which could be classified as freshwater, oligosaline or mesosaline, to develop a general view of the AOA and AOB in lakes on the Tibetan Plateau. 2. Based on PCR screening of the ammonia monooxygenase alpha-subunit (amoA) gene, AOA were present in 14 out of 17 samples, whereas AOB were detected in only four samples. Phylogenetic analyses indicated that the AOB communities were dominated by a unique monophylogenetic lineage within Nitrosomonas, which may represent a novel cluster of AOB. AOA, on the other hand, were distinct among lakes with different salinities. 3. Multivariate statistical analyses indicated a heterogeneous distribution of the AOA communities among lakes largely caused by lake salinity, whereas the uniform chemical properties within lakes and their geographical isolation may favour relatively homogeneous AOA communities within lakes. 4. Our results suggest a wide occurrence of AOA in Tibetan lakes and provide the first evidence of salinity-related differentiation of AOA community composition as well as potential geographical isolation of AOA in inland aquatic environments.	2010	10.1111/j.1365-2427.2010.02454.x
Bell, T	Experimental tests of the bacterial distance-decay relationship	ISME JOURNAL	Community similarity declines with increasing geographic distance if species tend to be locally adapted or if they are dispersal limited. The distance-decay of similarity has been shown for bacteria previously, but distinguishing between these competing mechanisms is difficult from observational surveys. I found little evidence of a relationship between geographic distance and similarity in community composition in an aquatic bacterial community. When bacterial colonization occurred into initially identical sterile microcosms across a woodland, a strong distance-decay relationship was observed after 28 days, implying that dispersal limitation created a strong pattern in these communities in the absence of environmental differences. This conclusion was not supported by the results of a reciprocal transplant experiment. When microcosms at the extremities of the study area were transplanted to the opposite end of the study area, the communities converged on the community composition at the site to which they were transplanted. This convergence did not depend on whether colonization into the microcosms was prevented, implying a minor role for dispersal limitation over these spatial and temporal scales. Additional manipulations of colonization rates were consistent with the hypothesis that dispersal limitation structured these communities over short time scales (a few days), but that dispersal limitation had a minor role over longer time scales (47 days). The ISME Journal (2010) 4, 1357-1365; doi: 10.1038/ismej.2010.77; published online 10 June 2010	2010	10.1038/ismej.2010.77
Coleman, ML; Chisholm, SW	Ecosystem-specific selection pressures revealed through comparative population genomics	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	Bacterial populations harbor vast genetic diversity that is continually shaped by abiotic and biotic selective pressures, as well as by neutral processes. Individuals coexisting in the same geographically defined population often have significantly different gene content, but whether this variation is largely adaptive or neutral remains poorly understood. Here we quantify heterogeneity in gene content for two model marine microbes, Prochlorococcus and Pelagibacter, within and between populations in the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans, to begin to understand the selective pressures that are shaping these population genomes. We discovered a large fraction of genes that are rare in each population, reflecting continual gene transfer and loss. Despite this high variation within each population, only a few genes significantly differ in abundance between the two biogeochemically distinct environments; nearly all of these are related to phosphorus acquisition and are enriched in the Atlantic relative to the Pacific. Moreover, P-related genes from the two sites form phylogenetically distinct clusters, whereas housekeeping genes do not, consistent with a recent spread of adaptive P-related genes in the Atlantic populations. These findings implicate phosphorus availability as the dominant selective force driving divergence between these populations, and demonstrate the promise of this approach for revealing selective agents in more complex microbial systems.	2010	10.1073/pnas.1009480107
Xiang, SR; Chen, Y; Shang, TC; Jing, ZF; Wu, GJ	Change of microbial communities in glaciers along a transition of air masses in western China	JOURNAL OF GEOPHYSICAL RESEARCH-BIOGEOSCIENCES	Microbial community dynamics across glaciers in different climatic zones provide important information about the sources, transportation pathways, and deposition of microorganisms. To better understand the possible driving forces of microbial community shifts in glacier ice at a large spatial scale, 16S rRNA gene amplification was used to establish clone libraries containing 95 bacterial sequences from three different habitats in the Qiangyong Gacier in 2005. The libraries were used in phylogenetic comparison with 149 previously reported sequences from the surface samples collected from the Kuytun 51, and East Rongbuk glaciers in the same year. The results showed the presence of cosmopolitan and endemic species, and displayed a tendency of zonal distribution of bacterial communities at genera and community levels, corresponding to the geographic placement of the three glaciers. Data also showed a significant difference in the proportion of dominant phylogenetic groups in the three glaciers. Comamonadaceae/Polaromonas (Betaproteobacteria) and Flexibacteraceae (Bacteroidetes) were dominant in the Qiangyong Glacier, Cyanobacteria, Comamonadaceae/Polaromonas, and Rhodoferax (Betaproteobacteria) were dominant in the Kuytun 51 Glacier, and Acinetobacteria (Gammaproteobacteria) were dominant in the Rongbuk Glacier. In conclusion, the current study provides evidence of microbial biogeography in glacier ice at both the fine lineage and whole community levels. The biogeographical patterns were generally associated with the hydrological transition over the glaciers in the northern periphery and southern part of the Tibetan plateau. This supports our hypothesis of air mass behavior being one of the main drivers determining the zonal distribution of microbial communities across the mountain glaciers in western China.	2010	10.1029/2010JG001298
Wiens, JJ; Ackerly, DD; Allen, AP; Anacker, BL; Buckley, LB; Cornell, HV; Damschen, EI; Davies, TJ; Grytnes, JA; Harrison, SP; Hawkins, BA; Holt, RD; McCain, CM; Stephens, PR	Niche conservatism as an emerging principle in ecology and conservation biology	ECOLOGY LETTERS	The diversity of life is ultimately generated by evolution, and much attention has focused on the rapid evolution of ecological traits. Yet, the tendency for many ecological traits to instead remain similar over time [niche conservatism (NC)] has many consequences for the fundamental patterns and processes studied in ecology and conservation biology. Here, we describe the mounting evidence for the importance of NC to major topics in ecology (e.g. species richness, ecosystem function) and conservation (e.g. climate change, invasive species). We also review other areas where it may be important but has generally been overlooked, in both ecology (e.g. food webs, disease ecology, mutualistic interactions) and conservation (e.g. habitat modification). We summarize methods for testing for NC, and suggest that a commonly used and advocated method (involving a test for phylogenetic signal) is potentially problematic, and describe alternative approaches. We suggest that considering NC: (1) focuses attention on the within-species processes that cause traits to be conserved over time, (2) emphasizes connections between questions and research areas that are not obviously related (e.g. invasives, global warming, tropical richness), and (3) suggests new areas for research (e.g. why are some clades largely nocturnal? why do related species share diseases?).	2010	10.1111/j.1461-0248.2010.01515.x
Sharma, NK; Singh, S	Differential Aerosolization of Algal and Cyanobacterial Particles in the Atmosphere	INDIAN JOURNAL OF MICROBIOLOGY	Aeroalgal sampling at short height (2.5 m) over natural aquatic and terrestrial algal sources revealed that despite of being similar in size (< 1 mm), algal groups vary in their atmospheric abundance. Cyanobacteria were the most abundant, while chlorophytes and bacillariophytes though present, but rare. Statistical analysis (Akaike Information Criterion) showed that climatic factors (temperature, relative humidity, rainfall, wind velocity and sunshine hours) acted in concert, and mainly affected the release and subsequent vertical movement (aerosolization) of algae from natural sources. Variation in aerosolization may affect the atmospheric abundance of algae. These findings have important implication as dispersal limitation may influence the biogeography and biodiversity of microbial algae.	2010	10.1007/s12088-011-0146-x
Quiberoni, A; Moineau, S; Rousseau, GM; Reinheimer, J; Ackermann, HW	Streptococcus thermophilus bacteriophages	INTERNATIONAL DAIRY JOURNAL	At least 345 bacteriophages infecting Streptococcus thermophilus starter cultures have been isolated; general characteristics include high thermal resistance, short latent periods and large burst size. Phages with such characteristics are primed to thrive in the cheese making environment, lysing bacterial cultures and generating low-quality fermented products. All S. thermophilus phages isolated to date are members of the Siphoviridae family and the Caudovirales order and appear to constitute a polythetic phage species comprising two large groups, cos- and pac-types, based on the mode of DNA packaging. Comparative analyses have shown that S. thermophilus phage genomes are similarly organized into distinct modular regions and allow the detection of a core genome region. Several PCR-based techniques have been designed to detect them in cheese whey and milk samples. Similar S. thermophilus phages are globally distributed and endemic in specific dairy environments. The biogeography of S. thermophilus phages reinforces their current classification. (C) 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2010	10.1016/j.idairyj.2010.03.012
Locey, KJ	Synthesizing traditional biogeography with microbial ecology: the importance of dormancy	JOURNAL OF BIOGEOGRAPHY	The discovery of biogeographical patterns among microbial communities has led to a focus on the empirical evaluation of the importance of dispersal limitation in microbial biota. As a result, the spatial distribution of microbial diversity has been increasingly studied while the synthesis of biogeographical theory with microbial ecology remains undeveloped. To make biogeographical theory relevant to microbial ecology, microbial traits that potentially affect the distribution of microbial diversity need to be considered. Given that many microorganisms in natural environments are in a state of dormancy and that dormancy is an important microbial fitness trait, I provide a first attempt to account for the effects of dormancy on microbial biogeography by treating dormancy as a fundamental biogeographical response. I discuss the effects of dormancy on the equilibrium theory of island biogeography and on the unified neutral theory of biodiversity and biogeography, and suggest how the equilibrium theory of island biogeography can produce predictions approaching those of the Baas-Becking hypothesis (i.e. everything is everywhere, but the environment selects). In addition, I present a conceptual model of the unified neutral theory of biodiversity and biogeography, generalized to account for dormancy, from which a full model can be constructed for species with or without dormant life history stages.	2010	10.1111/j.1365-2699.2010.02357.x
Bissett, A; Richardson, AE; Baker, G; Wakelin, S; Thrall, PH	Life history determines biogeographical patterns of soil bacterial communities over multiple spatial scales	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	The extent to which the distribution of soil bacteria is controlled by local environment vs. spatial factors (e.g. dispersal, colonization limitation, evolutionary events) is poorly understood and widely debated. Our understanding of biogeographic controls in microbial communities is likely hampered by the enormous environmental variability encountered across spatial scales and the broad diversity of microbial life histories. Here, we constrained environmental factors (soil chemistry, climate, above-ground plant community) to investigate the specific influence of space, by fitting all other variables first, on bacterial communities in soils over distances from m to 102 km. We found strong evidence for a spatial component to bacterial community structure that varies with scale and organism life history (dispersal and survival ability). Geographic distance had no influence over community structure for organisms known to have survival stages, but the converse was true for organisms thought to be less hardy. Community function (substrate utilization) was also shown to be highly correlated with community structure, but not to abiotic factors, suggesting nonstochastic determinants of community structure are important Our results support the view that bacterial soil communities are constrained by both edaphic factors and geographic distance and further show that the relative importance of such constraints depends critically on the taxonomic resolution used to evaluate spatio-temporal patterns of microbial diversity, as well as life history of the groups being investigated, much as is the case for macro-organisms.	2010	10.1111/j.1365-294X.2010.04804.x
Boo, SM; Kim, HS; Shin, W; Boo, GH; Cho, SM; Jo, BY; Kim, JH; Kim, JH; Yang, EC; Siver, PA; Wolfe, AP; Bhattacharya, D; Andersen, RA; Yoon, HS	Complex phylogeographic patterns in the freshwater alga Synura provide new insights into ubiquity vs. endemism in microbial eukaryotes	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	The global distribution, abundance, and diversity of microscopic freshwater algae demonstrate an ability to overcome significant barriers such as dry land and oceans by exploiting a range of biotic and abiotic colonization vectors. If these vectors are considered unlimited and colonization occurs in proportion to population size, then globally ubiquitous distributions are predicted to arise. This model contrasts with observations that many freshwater microalgal taxa possess true biogeographies. Here, using a concatenated multigene data set, we study the phylogeography of the freshwater heterokont alga Synura petersenii sensu lato. Our results suggest that this Synura morphotaxon contains both cosmopolitan and regionally endemic cryptic species, co-occurring in some cases, and masked by a common ultrastructural morphology. Phylogenies based on both proteins (seven protein-coding plastid and mitochondrial genes) and DNA (nine genes including ITS and 18S rDNA) reveal pronounced biogeographic delineations within phylotypes of this cryptic species complex while retaining one clade that is globally distributed. Relaxed molecular clock calculations, constrained by fossil records, suggest that the genus Synura is considerably older than currently proposed. The availability of tectonically relevant geological time (107-108 years) has enabled the development of the observed, complex biogeographic patterns. Our comprehensive analysis of freshwater algal biogeography suggests that neither ubiquity nor endemism wholly explains global patterns of microbial eukaryote distribution and that processes of dispersal remain poorly understood.	2010	10.1111/j.1365-294X.2010.04813.x
Parnell, JJ; Rompato, G; Latta, LC; Pfrender, ME; Van Nostrand, JD; He, ZL; Zhou, JZ; Andersen, G; Champine, P; Ganesan, B; Weimer, BC	Functional Biogeography as Evidence of Gene Transfer in Hypersaline Microbial Communities	PLOS ONE	Background: Horizontal gene transfer (HGT) plays a major role in speciation and evolution of bacteria and archaea by controlling gene distribution within an environment. However, information that links HGT to a natural community using relevant population-genetics parameters and spatial considerations is scarce. The Great Salt Lake (Utah, USA) provides an excellent model for studying HGT in the context of biogeography because it is a contiguous system with dispersal limitations due to a strong selective salinity gradient. We hypothesize that in spite of the barrier to phylogenetic dispersal, functional characteristics-in the form of HGT-expand beyond phylogenetic limitations due to selective pressure. Methodology and Results: To assay the functional genes and microorganisms throughout the GSL, we used a 16S rRNA oligonucleotide microarray (Phylochip) and a functional gene array (GeoChip) to measure biogeographic patterns of nine microbial communities. We found a significant difference in biogeography based on microarray analyses when comparing Sorensen similarity values for presence/absence of function and phylogeny (Students t-test; p = 0.005). Conclusion and Significance: Biogeographic patterns exhibit behavior associated with horizontal gene transfer in that informational genes (16S rRNA) have a lower similarity than functional genes, and functional similarity is positively correlated with lake-wide selective pressure. Specifically, high concentrations of chromium throughout GSL correspond to an average similarity of chromium resistance genes that is 22% higher than taxonomic similarity. This suggests active HGT may be measured at the population level in microbial communities and these biogeographic patterns may serve as a model to study bacteria adaptation and speciation.	2010	10.1371/journal.pone.0012919
Humphrey, PT; Caporale, DA; Brisson, D	UNCOORDINATED PHYLOGEOGRAPHY OF BORRELIA BURGDORFERI AND ITS TICK VECTOR, IXODES SCAPULARIS	EVOLUTION	Vector-borne microbes necessarily co-occur with their hosts and vectors, but the degree to which they share common evolutionary or biogeographic histories remains unexplored. We examine the congruity of the evolutionary and biogeographic histories of the bacterium and vector of the Lyme disease system, the most prevalent vector-borne disease in North America. In the eastern and midwestern US, Ixodes scapularis ticks are the primary vectors of Borrelia burgdorferi, the bacterium that causes Lyme disease. Our phylogeographic and demographic analyses of the 16S mitochondrial rDNA suggest that northern I. scapularis populations originated from very few migrants from the southeastern US that expanded rapidly in the Northeast and subsequently in the Midwest after the recession of the Pleistocene ice sheets. Despite this historical gene flow, current tick migration is restricted even between proximal sites within regions. In contrast, B. burgdorferi suffers no barriers to gene flow within the northeastern and midwestern regions but shows clear interregional migration barriers. Despite the intimate association of B. burgdorferi and I. scapularis, the population structure, evolutionary history, and historical biogeography of the pathogen are all contrary to its arthropod vector. In the case of Lyme disease, movements of infected vertebrate hosts may play a larger role in the contemporary expansion and homogenization of the pathogen than the movement of tick vectors whose populations continue to bear the historical signature of climate-induced range shifts.	2010	10.1111/j.1558-5646.2010.01001.x
Huber, JA; Cantin, HV; Huse, SM; Welch, DBM; Sogin, ML; Butterfield, DA	Isolated communities of Epsilonproteobacteria in hydrothermal vent fluids of the Mariana Arc seamounts	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Low-temperature hydrothermal vent fluids represent access points to diverse microbial communities living in oceanic crust. This study examined the distribution, relative abundance, and diversity of Epsilonproteobacteria in 14 low-temperature vent fluids from five volcanically active seamounts of the Mariana Arc using a 454 tag sequencing approach. Most vent fluids were enriched in cell concentrations compared with background seawater, and quantitative PCR results indicated that all fluids were dominated by bacteria. Operational taxonomic unit-based statistical tools applied to 454 data show that all vents from the northern end of the Mariana Arc grouped together, to the exclusion of southern arc seamounts, which were as distinct from one another as they were from northern seamounts. Statistical analysis also showed a significant relationship between seamount and individual vent groupings, suggesting that community membership may be linked to geographical isolation and not geochemical parameters. However, while there may be large-scale geographic differences, distance is not the distinguishing factor in the microbial community composition. At the local scale, most vents host a distinct population of Epsilonproteobacteria, regardless of seamount location. This suggests that there may be barriers to exchange and dispersal for these vent endemic microorganisms at hydrothermal seamounts of the Mariana Arc.	2010	10.1111/j.1574-6941.2010.00910.x
Tian, CF; Young, JPW; Wang, ET; Tamimi, SM; Chen, WX	Population mixing of Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. viciae nodulating Vicia faba: the role of recombination and lateral gene transfer	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	The level and mechanisms of population mixing among faba bean (Vicia faba) rhizobia of different geographic origins (three ecoregions of China and several Western countries) were analysed by sequencing three chromosomal housekeeping loci (atpD, recA and glnII) and one nodulation gene (nodD). Eight distinct sublineages of Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. viciae (Rlv) were identified by concatenated sequences of chromosomal loci. structure analysis revealed admixture patterns of Rlv populations of different geographic origins. Recombination, particularly among these chromosomal loci, was revealed to be an important microevolutionary force in shaping the observed genetic diversity and the phylogeny of Rlv. The phylogeny of nodD is largely independent of that of the chromosomal loci, reflecting multiple gene transfers between sublineages and possibly selection imposed by different faba bean gene pools. The dominant nodulation genotype of faba bean rhizobia in the spring growing region of China is identical to the prevalent type of Europe, while the winter growing region of China has another related, but distinct, dominant nodulation genotype. Although several geographically specific sublineages of Rlv were observed, recombination and lateral gene transfer have driven the process of population mixing among different ecoregions of China or between China and countries to the west.	2010	10.1111/j.1574-6941.2010.00909.x
Arbeli, Z; Fuentes, C	Prevalence of the gene trzN and biogeographic patterns among atrazine-degrading bacteria isolated from 13 Colombian agricultural soils	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	The following study evaluated the diversity and biogeography of 83 new atrazine-degrading bacteria and the composition of their atrazine degradation genes. These strains were isolated from 13 agricultural soils and grouped according to rep-PCR genomic fingerprinting into 11 major clusters, which showed biogeographic patterns. Three clusters (54 strains) belonged to the genus Arthrobacter, seven clusters (28 strains) were similar to the genus Nocardioides and only one strain was a gram-negative from the genus Ancylobacter. PCR assays for the detection of the genes atzA, B, C, D, E, F and trzN conducted with each of the 83 strains revealed that 82 strains (all gram positive) possessed trzN, 74 of them possessed the combination of trzN, atzB and atzC, while only the gram-negative strain had atzA. A similar PCR assay for the two analogous genes, atzA and trzN, responsible for the first step of atrazine degradation, was performed with DNA extracted directly from the enrichment cultures and microcosms spiked with atrazine. In these assays, the gene trzN was detected in each culture, while atzA was detected in only six out of 13 soils. These results raise an interesting hypothesis on the evolutionary ecology of the two atrazine chlorohydrolase genes (i.e. atzA and trzN) and about the biogeography of atrazine-degrading bacteria.	2010	10.1111/j.1574-6941.2010.00905.x
Kouridaki, I; Polymenakou, PN; Tselepides, A; Mandalakis, M; Smith, KL	Phylogenetic diversity of sediment bacteria from the deep Northeastern Pacific Ocean: a comparison with the deep Eastern Mediterranean Sea	INTERNATIONAL MICROBIOLOGY	The variability of bacterial community composition and diversity was studied by comparative analysis of five 16S rRNA gene clone libraries from deep-sea sediments (water column depth: 4000 m) of the Northeastern Pacific Ocean and Eastern Mediterranean Sea. This is the first comparison of the bacterial communities living in these deep-sea ecosystems. The estimated chlorophyll a, organic carbon, and C/N ratio provided evidence of significant differences in the trophic state of the sediments between the Northeastern Pacific Ocean and the much warmer Eastern Mediterranean Sea. A diverse range of 16S rRNA gene phylotypes was found in the sediments of both regions. These were represented by 11 different taxonomic groups, with Gammaproteobacteria predominating in the Northeastern Pacific Ocean sediments and Acidobacteria in the Eastern Mediterranean microbial community. In addition, several 16S rRNA gene phylotypes only distantly related to any of the previously identified sequences (non-affiliated rRNA genes) represented a significant fraction of the total sequences. The potential diversity at the two sites differs but remains largely unexplored and remains of continuing scientific interest. [Int Microbiol 2010; 13(3):143-150]	2010	10.2436/20.1501.01.119
Barlocher, F	Molecular approaches promise a deeper and broader understanding of the evolutionary ecology of aquatic hyphomycetes	JOURNAL OF THE NORTH AMERICAN BENTHOLOGICAL SOCIETY	Research on aquatic hyphomycetes has been dominated by process-oriented approaches. The main objectives have been accurate estimates of fungal biomass and production and measuring fungal impact on plant litter decomposition. In some cases, these estimates have been complemented by community assessments based on spore counts. Many other ecological and evolutionary topics, commonly studied in macroorganisms, were largely inaccessible, in part because of the low morphological complexity of fungal structures and the near impossibility of identifying them in situ unless attached to propagules. Molecular methods rely on extraction, amplification (polymerase chain reaction) and characterization (denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis, digitized fluorescent restriction-fragment length polymorphism, sequencing) of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA), which occurs in all cells regardless of their reproductive status. Molecular methods allow more comprehensive characterizations of fungal diversity and evolution. Enzymatic activities can be explored at the level of gene presence (DNA amplification and sequencing), gene transcription (reverse transcription of messenger ribonucleic acid [mRNA]), by quantifying the total amount of specified enzymes in a sample via global antibodies, or by estimating their effect on model compounds. Selected actual and potential applications of these techniques are reviewed.	2010	10.1899/09-081.1
Lindstrom, ES; Feng, XM; Graneli, W; Kritzberg, ES	The interplay between bacterial community composition and the environment determining function of inland water bacteria	LIMNOLOGY AND OCEANOGRAPHY	We hypothesized that habitats differing in water flow regime would differ in bacterial function either because of differences in the local environment, in bacterial community composition (BCC), or in the mechanism shaping BCC (community assembly). In 20 lakes and 17 inlet streams BCC was analyzed by terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism of the gene coding for 16S ribosomal RNA, and bacterial function was estimated as bacterial production rate (BP, measured as leucine incorporation) per content of dissolved organic carbon (DOC) (BP : DOC). BCC in both lakes and streams appeared to be shaped by local environmental forces (i.e., species sorting according to metacommunity theory), but not by massive introduction of cells from the drainage area (mass effect). BP : DOC was lower in streams than in lakes, which appeared to be both because of differences in BCC and environment between lakes and streams, independent of each other. We found no support for an effect of water flow regime in itself (i.e., cell dispersal rate) causing the lower functionality of the streams. In streams, BP : DOC was correlated to both BCC and environment, independent of each other, while in lakes function could not be explained by either BCC or environment. The greater environmental variability among our streams than among our lakes may be the cause for the stronger BCC-function coupling in our streams, since smaller environmental variation among our lakes would allow a greater functional redundancy.	2010	10.4319/lo.2010.55.5.2052
Oliver, MJ; Schofield, O; Bidle, K	Density dependent expression of a diatom retrotransposon	MARINE GENOMICS	Retrotransposons are mobile genetic elements that encode for their own replication. Many studies have linked their expression to stress caused by environmental factors. Genome sequencing and EST libraries of the coastal diatom Phaeodactylum tricornutum indicate that this organism has an active copia-like retrotransposon (Blackbeard), which is variably expressed under different culture conditions. In this study, we induce physiologic stress in P. tricornutum and measure Blackbeard expression over time. However, we find the dominant pattern of Blackbeard expression is related to cell culture density, not short-term physiologic stress. Density dependent expression of a retrotransposon in a diatom provides significant insight into the biogeography of diatom genome mutation. We suggest the shallow coastal ocean, where diatom densities are high. may be the geographic locus for generating genomic diversity in diatom lineages. (C) 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2010	10.1016/j.margen.2010.08.006
Sohrin, R; Imazawa, M; Fukuda, H; Suzuki, Y	Full-depth profiles of prokaryotes, heterotrophic nanoflagellates, and ciliates along a transect from the equatorial to the subarctic central Pacific Ocean	DEEP-SEA RESEARCH PART II-TOPICAL STUDIES IN OCEANOGRAPHY	Studies in epipelagic waters report higher heterotrophic microbial biomass in the productive high latitudes than in the oligotrophic low latitudes; however, biogeographical data are scarce in the deep ocean. To examine the hypothesis that the observed latitudinal differences in heterotrophic microbial biomass in the epipelagic zone also occur at depth, abundance and biomass of heterotrophic prokaryotes, nanoflagellates (HNF), and ciliates were determined at depths of 5-5000 in in the central Pacific between August and September of 2005. Heterotrophic microbial biomass increased from the tropical to the subarctic region over the full water column, with latitudinal differences in prokaryotic biomass increasing from 2.3-fold in the epipelagic zone to 4.4-fold in the bathypelagic zone. However, the latitudinal difference in HNF and ciliate biomass decreased with depth. In the rnesopelagic zone, the vertical attenuation rate of prokaryotic abundance, which was calculated as the linear regression slope of log-log plot of abundance versus depth, ranged from -0.55 to -1.26 and was more pronounced (steeper slope) in the lower latitudes. In contrast, the vertical attenuation rate of HNF in the mesopelagic zone (-1.06 to -1.27) did not differ with latitude. In the subarctic, the attenuation rate of HNF was 1.7 times steeper than for prokaryotes. These results suggest the accumulation of prokaryotes in the deep subarctic Pacific, possibly due to low grazing pressure. Although the vertical attenuation rate of ciliates was steepest in the bathypelagic zone, HNF abundance did not further decrease at depths below 1000 m, except for at 2000 m where HNF was lowest across the study area. Ciliate abundance ranged 0.3-0.8 cells 1(-1) at 4000 m, and were below the detection limit (<0.1 cells 1-1) at 5000 m. To our knowledge, this study presents the first data for ciliates below 2000 m. (C) 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2010	10.1016/j.dsr2.2010.02.020
Amend, AS; Seifert, KA; Samson, R; Bruns, TD	Indoor fungal composition is geographically patterned and more diverse in temperate zones than in the tropics	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	Fungi are ubiquitous components of indoor human environments, where most contact between humans and microbes occurs. The majority of these organisms apparently play a neutral role, but some are detrimental to human lifestyles and health. Recent studies that used culture-independent sampling methods demonstrated a high diversity of indoor fungi distinct from that of outdoor environments. Others have shown temporal fluctuations of fungal assemblages in human environments and modest correlations with human activity, but global-scale patterns have not been examined, despite the manifest significance of biogeography in other microbial systems. Here we present a global survey of fungi from indoor environments (n = 72), using both taxonomic and phylogeny-informative molecular markers to determine whether global or local indoor factors determine indoor fungal composition. Contrary to common ecological patterns, we show that fungal diversity is significantly higher in temperate zones than in the tropics, with distance from the equator being the best predictor of phylogenetic community similarity. Fungal composition is significantly auto-correlated at the national and hemispheric spatial scales. Remarkably, building function has no significant effect on indoor fungal composition, despite stark contrasts between architecture and materials of some buildings in close proximity. Distribution of individual taxa is significantly range-and latitude-limited compared with a null model of randomized distribution. Our results suggest that factors driving fungal composition are primarily global rather than mediated by building design or function.	2010	10.1073/pnas.1000454107
Yergeau, E; Bezemer, TM; Hedlund, K; Mortimer, SR; Kowalchuk, GA; van der Putten, WH	Influences of space, soil, nematodes and plants on microbial community composition of chalk grassland soils	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	P>Microbial communities respond to a variety of environmental factors related to resources (e.g. plant and soil organic matter), habitat (e.g. soil characteristics) and predation (e.g. nematodes, protozoa and viruses). However, the relative contribution of these factors on microbial community composition is poorly understood. Here, we sampled soils from 30 chalk grassland fields located in three different chalk hill ridges of Southern England, using a spatially explicit sampling scheme. We assessed microbial communities via phospholipid fatty acid (PLFA) analyses and PCR-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) and measured soil characteristics, as well as nematode and plant community composition. The relative influences of space, soil, vegetation and nematodes on soil microorganisms were contrasted using variation partitioning and path analysis. Results indicate that soil characteristics and plant community composition, representing habitat and resources, shape soil microbial community composition, whereas the influence of nematodes, a potential predation factor, appears to be relatively small. Spatial variation in microbial community structure was detected at broad (between fields) and fine (within fields) scales, suggesting that microbial communities exhibit biogeographic patterns at different scales. Although our analysis included several relevant explanatory data sets, a large part of the variation in microbial communities remained unexplained (up to 92% in some analyses). However, in several analyses, significant parts of the variation in microbial community structure could be explained. The results of this study contribute to our understanding of the relative importance of different environmental and spatial factors in driving the composition of soil-borne microbial communities.	2010	10.1111/j.1462-2920.2009.02053.x
Petersen, JM; Ramette, A; Lott, C; Cambon-Bonavita, MA; Zbinden, M; Dubilier, N	Dual symbiosis of the vent shrimp Rimicaris exoculata with filamentous gamma- and epsilonproteobacteria at four Mid-Atlantic Ridge hydrothermal vent fields	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	The shrimp Rimicaris exoculata from hydrothermal vents on the Mid-Atlantic Ridge (MAR) harbours bacterial epibionts on specialized appendages and the inner surfaces of its gill chamber. Using comparative 16S rRNA sequence analysis and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), we examined the R. exoculata epibiosis from four vents sites along the known distribution range of the shrimp on the MAR. Our results show that R. exoculata lives in symbiosis with two types of filamentous epibionts. One belongs to the Epsilonproteobacteria, and was previously identified as the dominant symbiont of R. exoculata. The second is a novel gammaproteobacterial symbiont that belongs to a clade consisting exclusively of sequences from epibiotic bacteria of hydrothermal vent animals, with the filamentous sulfur oxidizer Leucothrix mucor as the closest free-living relative. Both the epsilon- and the gammaproteobacterial symbionts dominated the R. exoculata epibiosis at all four MAR vent sites despite striking differences between vent fluid chemistry and distances between sites of up to 8500 km, indicating that the symbiosis is highly stable and specific. Phylogenetic analyses of two mitochondrial host genes showed little to no differences between hosts from the four vent sites. In contrast, there was significant spatial structuring of both the gamma- and the epsilonproteobacterial symbiont populations based on their 16S rRNA gene sequences that was correlated with geographic distance along the MAR. We hypothesize that biogeography and host-symbiont selectivity play a role in structuring the epibiosis of R. exoculata.	2010	10.1111/j.1462-2920.2009.02129.x
Ruehland, C; Dubilier, N	Gamma- and epsilonproteobacterial ectosymbionts of a shallow-water marine worm are related to deep-sea hydrothermal vent ectosymbionts	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	P>The marine oligochaete worm Tubificoides benedii is often found in high numbers in eutrophic coastal sediments with low oxygen and high sulfide concentrations. A dense biofilm of filamentous bacteria on the worms tail end were morphologically described over 20 years ago, but no further studies of these epibiotic associations were done. In this study, we used fluorescence in situ hybridization and comparative sequence analysis of 16S rRNA and protein-coding genes to characterize the microbial community of the worms tail ends. The presence of genes involved in chemoautotrophy (cbbL and cbbM) and sulfur metabolism (aprA) indicated the potential of the T. benedii microbial community for chemosynthesis. Two filamentous ectosymbionts were specific to the worms tail ends: one belonged to the Leucothrix mucor clade within the Gammaproteobacteria and the other to the Thiovulgaceae within the Epsilonproteobacteria. Both T. benedii ectosymbionts belonged to clades that consisted almost exclusively of bacteria associated with invertebrates from deep-sea hydrothermal vents. Such close relationships between symbionts from shallow-water and deep-sea hosts that are not closely related to each other are unusual, and indicate that biogeography and host affiliation did not play a role in these associations. Instead, similarities between the dynamic environments of vents and organic-rich mudflats with their strong fluctuations in reductants and oxidants may have been the driving force behind the establishment and evolution of these symbioses.	2010	10.1111/j.1462-2920.2010.02256.x
Hall, EK; Singer, GA; Kainz, MJ; Lennon, JT	Evidence for a temperature acclimation mechanism in bacteria: an empirical test of a membrane-mediated trade-off	FUNCTIONAL ECOLOGY	P>1. Shifts in bacterial community composition along temporal and spatial temperature gradients occur in a wide range of habitats and have potentially important implications for ecosystem functioning. However, it is often challenging to empirically link an adaptation or acclimation that defines environmental niche or biogeography with a quantifiable phenotype, especially in micro-organisms. 2. Here we evaluate a possible mechanistic explanation for shifts in bacterioplankton community composition in response to temperature by testing a previously hypothesized membrane mediated trade-off between resource acquisition and respiratory costs. 3. We isolated two strains of Flavobacterium sp. at two temperatures (cold isolate and warm isolate) from the epilimnion of a small temperate lake in North Central Minnesota. 4. Compared with the cold isolate the warm isolate had higher growth rate, higher carrying capacity, lower lag time and lower respiration at the high temperature and lower phosphorus uptake at the low temperature. We also observed significant differences in membrane lipid composition between isolates and between environments that were consistent with adjustments necessary to maintain membrane fluidity at different temperatures. 5. Our results suggest that temperature acclimation in planktonic bacteria is, in part, a resource-dependent membrane-facilitated phenomenon. This study provides an explicit example of how a quantifiable phenotype can be linked through physiology to competitive ability and environmental niche.	2010	10.1111/j.1365-2435.2010.01707.x
Bik, EM; Long, CD; Armitage, GC; Loomer, P; Emerson, J; Mongodin, EF; Nelson, KE; Gill, SR; Fraser-Liggett, CM; Relman, DA	Bacterial diversity in the oral cavity of 10 healthy individuals	ISME JOURNAL	The composition of the oral microbiota from 10 individuals with healthy oral tissues was determined using culture-independent techniques. From each individual, 26 specimens, each from different oral sites at a single point in time, were collected and pooled. An 11th pool was constructed using portions of the subgingival specimens from all 10 individuals. The 16S ribosomal RNA gene was amplified using broad-range bacterial primers, and clone libraries from the individual and subgingival pools were constructed. From a total of 11 368 high-quality, nonchimeric, near full-length sequences, 247 species-level phylotypes (using a 99% sequence identity threshold) and 9 bacterial phyla were identified. At least 15 bacterial genera were conserved among all 10 individuals, with significant interindividual differences at the species and strain level. Comparisons of these oral bacterial sequences with near full-length sequences found previously in the large intestines and feces of other healthy individuals suggest that the mouth and intestinal tract harbor distinct sets of bacteria. Co-occurrence analysis showed significant segregation of taxa when community membership was examined at the level of genus, but not at the level of species, suggesting that ecologically significant, competitive interactions are more apparent at a broader taxonomic level than species. This study is one of the more comprehensive, high-resolution analyses of bacterial diversity within the healthy human mouth to date, and highlights the value of tools from macroecology for enhancing our understanding of bacterial ecology in human health. The ISME Journal (2010) 4, 962-974; doi:10.1038/ismej.2010.30; published online 25 March 2010	2010	10.1038/ismej.2010.30
Martin, GM	Geographic distribution and historical occurrence of Dromiciops gliroides Thomas (Metatheria: Microbiotheria)	JOURNAL OF MAMMALOGY	Occurrence records represent the key to understanding species distribution patterns. I analyzed the historical and geographical occurrence of Dromiciops gliroides, a marsupial endemic to the temperate rain forests of southern Chile and Argentina and the sole living representative of the order Microbiotheria. Eighty-eight localities spanning 7 degrees 31 latitude (similar to 850 km) and 3 degrees 13 longitude (similar to 350 km) are known for the species and were taken from previous works and museum specimens and integrated in a geographic information system. Species distribution was analyzed in a historical, geographic, and biogeographic context, with the use of maps at different scales (region, subregion, province, ecoregion, and forest type). The software MaxEnt was used to generate 2 potential distribution models with environmental data. Generated models show a northern contraction and southern expansion in the species potential distribution, with variation in habitat suitability throughout the current species range. Precipitation and some temperature-related variables influenced both generated models. The species occurrence lies within the Andean region; Subantarctic and Patagonia subregions; and Maule, Valdivian, and Subandean Patagonia provinces. At a smaller scale, most of the localities occur within the Valdivian Temperate Forests ecoregion, and in the majority of the forest types described for it, implying broader ecological requirements than expected. Identification of critical areas through potential distribution modeling may have implications on species conservation and biogeographic patterns. DOT: 10.1644/09-MAMM-A-347.1.	2010	10.1644/09-MAMM-A-347.1
King, AJ; Freeman, KR; McCormick, KF; Lynch, RC; Lozupone, C; Knight, R; Schmidt, SK	Biogeography and habitat modelling of high-alpine bacteria	NATURE COMMUNICATIONS	Soil microorganisms dominate terrestrial biogeochemical cycles; however, we know very little about their spatial distribution and how changes in the distributions of specific groups of microbes translate into landscape and global patterns of biogeochemical processes. In this paper, we use a nested sampling scheme at scales ranging from 2 to 2,000 m to show that bacteria have significant spatial autocorrelation in community composition up to a distance of 240 m, and that this pattern is driven by changes in the relative abundance of specific bacterial clades across the landscape. Analysis of clade habitat distribution models and spatial co-correlation maps identified soil pH, plant abundance and snow depth as major variables structuring bacterial communities across this landscape, and revealed an unexpected and important oligotrophic niche for the Rhodospirillales in soil. Furthermore, our global analysis of high-elevation soils from the Andes, Rockies, Himalayas and Alaskan range shows that habitat distribution models for bacteria have a strong predictive power across the entire globe.	2010	10.1038/ncomms1055
Olbermann, P; Josenhans, C; Moodley, Y; Uhr, M; Stamer, C; Vauterin, M; Suerbaum, S; Achtman, M; Linz, B	A Global Overview of the Genetic and Functional Diversity in the Helicobacter pylori cag Pathogenicity Island	PLOS GENETICS	The Helicobacter pylori cag pathogenicity island (cagPAI) encodes a type IV secretion system. Humans infected with cagPAI-carrying H. pylori are at increased risk for sequelae such as gastric cancer. Housekeeping genes in H. pylori show considerable genetic diversity; but the diversity of virulence factors such as the cagPAI, which transports the bacterial oncogene CagA into host cells, has not been systematically investigated. Here we compared the complete cagPAI sequences for 38 representative isolates from all known H. pylori biogeographic populations. Their gene content and gene order were highly conserved. The phylogeny of most cagPAI genes was similar to that of housekeeping genes, indicating that the cagPAI was probably acquired only once by H. pylori, and its genetic diversity reflects the isolation by distance that has shaped this bacterial species since modern humans migrated out of Africa. Most isolates induced IL-8 release in gastric epithelial cells, indicating that the function of the Cag secretion system has been conserved despite some genetic rearrangements. More than one third of cagPAI genes, in particular those encoding cell-surface exposed proteins, showed signatures of diversifying (Darwinian) selection at more than 5% of codons. Several unknown gene products predicted to be under Darwinian selection are also likely to be secreted proteins (e.g. HP0522, HP0535). One of these, HP0535, is predicted to code for either a new secreted candidate effector protein or a protein which interacts with CagA because it contains two genetic lineages, similar to cagA. Our study provides a resource that can guide future research on the biological roles and host interactions of cagPAI proteins, including several whose function is still unknown.	2010	10.1371/journal.pgen.1001069
Vyverman, W; Verleyen, E; Wilmotte, A; Hodgson, DA; Willems, A; Peeters, K; Van de Vijver, B; De Wever, A; Leliaert, F; Sabbe, K	Evidence for widespread endemism among Antarctic micro-organisms	POLAR SCIENCE	Understanding the enormous diversity of microbes, their multiple roles in the functioning of ecosystems, and their response to large-scale environmental and climatic changes, are at the forefront of the international research agenda. In Antarctica, where terrestrial and lacustrine environments are predominantly microbial realms, an active and growing community of microbial ecologists is probing this diversity and its role in ecosystem processes. In a broader context, this work has the potential to make a significant contribution to the long-standing debate as to whether microbes are fundamentally different from macroorganisms in their biogeography. According to the ubiquity hypothesis, microbial community composition is not constrained by dispersal limitation and is solely the result of species sorting along environmental gradients. However, recent work on several groups of microalgae is challenging this view. Global analyses using morphology-based diatom inventories have demonstrated that, in addition to environmental harshness, geographical isolation underlies the strong latitudinal gradients in local and regional diversity in the Southern hemisphere. Increasing evidence points to a strong regionalization of diatom floras in the Antarctic and sub-Antarctic regions, mirroring the biogeographical regions that have been recognized for macroorganisms. Likewise, the application of molecular-phylogenetic techniques to cultured and uncultured diversity revealed a high number of Antarctic endemics among cyanobacteria and green algae. Calibration of these phylogenies suggests that several clades have an ancient evolutionary history within the Antarctic continent, possibly dating back to 330 Ma. These findings are in line with the current view on the origin of Antarctic terrestrial metazoa, including springtails, chironomids and mites, with most evidence suggesting a long history of geographic isolation on a multi-million year, even pre-Gondwana break-up timescale. (C) 2010 Elsevier B.V. and NIPR. All rights reserved.	2010	10.1016/j.polar.2010.03.006
Hodgson, DA; Convey, P; Verleyen, E; Vyverman, W; McInnes, SJ; Sands, CJ; Fernandez-Carazo, R; Wilmotte, A; De Wever, A; Peeters, K; Tavernier, I; Willems, A	The limnology and biology of the Dufek Massif, Transantarctic Mountains 82 degrees South	POLAR SCIENCE	Very little is known about the higher latitude inland biology of continental Antarctica. In this paper we describe the limnology and biology of the Dufek Massif, using a range of observational, microscopic and molecular methods. Here two dry valleys are home to some of the southernmost biota on Earth. Cyanobacteria were the dominant life forms, being found in lakes and ponds, in hypersaline brines, summer melt water, relict pond beds and in exposed terrestrial habitats. Their species diversity was the lowest yet observed in Antarctic lakes. Green algae, cercozoa and bacteria were present, but diatoms were absent except for a single valve; likely windblown. Mosses were absent and only one lichen specimen was found. The Metazoa included three microbivorous tardigrades (Acutuncus antarcticus, Diphascon sanae and Echiniscus (cf) pseudowendti) and bdelloid rotifer species, but no arthropods or nematodes. These simple faunal and floral communities are missing most of the elements normally present at lower latitudes in the Antarctic which is probably a result of the very harsh environmental conditions in the area. (C) 2010 Elsevier B.V. and NIPR. All rights reserved.	2010	10.1016/j.polar.2010.04.003
Roesch, LFW; Fulthorpe, RR; Jaccques, RJS; Bento, FM; Camargo, FAD	Biogeography of diazotrophic bacteria in soils	WORLD JOURNAL OF MICROBIOLOGY & BIOTECHNOLOGY	This study evaluated diazotrophic bacterial diversity of soils from four different sites in South and North America. Approximately one hundred and thirty-nine thousand partial sequences of the small subunit of the bacterial ribosomal RNA gene generated for a previous study were used for this work. Sequences that presented at least 90% similarity with known diazotrophic organisms were pulled from the original dataset and a new library containing 14,842 sequences from nitrogen-fixing bacteria were analysed. The number of sequences and the abundance of identifiable/cultivable diazotrophic genera were used for the calculation of the Shannon-Weaver diversity index and Evenness. All soils exhibited similar diazotrophic diversity, illustrating the great amount of similarity found between randomly chosen soils. Out of 81 diazotrophic genera, 45 were found in common in the four soils tested irrespective of the localization or cultivation. The degree of dominance of these common genera within their communties differed widely between soils. Sixteen types were found in only one sample.	2010	10.1007/s11274-010-0326-6
Mazaris, AD; Moustaka-Gouni, M; Michaloudi, E; Bobori, DC	Biogeographical patterns of freshwater micro- and macroorganisms: a comparison between phytoplankton, zooplankton and fish in the eastern Mediterranean	JOURNAL OF BIOGEOGRAPHY	Aim We investigated the biogeographical patterns of phytoplankton, zooplankton and fish in freshwater ecosystems. We tested whether spatial distance or environmental heterogeneity act as potential factors controlling community composition. Location Northern and central Greece, eastern Mediterranean. Method Data on 310 phytoplankton, 72 zooplankton and 37 fish species were collected from seven freshwater systems. Species occurrence data were used to generate similarity matrices describing community composition. We performed Mantel tests to compare spatial patterns in community composition of phytoplankton, zooplankton and fish. Next, we examined the correlation between geographical distance and the degree of similarity in community composition. The analysis was repeated for different taxonomic, trophic and size-based groups of the microorganisms studied. We assessed different environmental variables (topographic and limnological) as predictors of community composition. Results Phytoplankton community composition showed a strong positive correlation with environmental heterogeneity but was not correlated with the geographical distance between systems. Zooplankton community composition was unrelated to geographical distance and was only weakly correlated with environmental variables. In contrast, fish community similarity decayed significantly with distance. We found no relationship along all pairwise comparisons of the compositional matrices of the three groups. The pairwise comparisons of the different taxonomic, trophic and size-based groups of the microorganism communities studied were in accordance with the results for the entire microorganism community. Main conclusions Our results support the proposition that the biogeography of microorganisms does not demonstrate a distance-decay pattern and further suggest that, in reality, the drivers of distribution depend on the specific community examined. In contrast, the biogeography of macroorganisms was affected by geographical distance. These differences reflect the dispersal abilities of the different organisms. The microorganisms exhibit passive dispersal through the air, with local environmental conditions structuring their community composition. On the other hand, for macroorganisms such as fish, the terrestrial environment could pose barriers to their dispersal; with fish structuring distinctive communities over greater distances. Overall, we suggest that the biogeography of freshwater phytoplankton and zooplankton reflects contemporary environmental conditions, while the biogeographical patterns for fish inhabiting the same systems are related to factors affecting their dispersal ability.	2010	10.1111/j.1365-2699.2010.02294.x
Hartmann, LS; Barnum, SR	Inferring the Evolutionary History of Mo-Dependent Nitrogen Fixation from Phylogenetic Studies of nifK and nifDK	JOURNAL OF MOLECULAR EVOLUTION	The ability to fix nitrogen is widely, but sporadically distributed among the Bacteria and Archaea suggesting either a vertically inherited, ancient function with widespread loss across genera or an adaptive feature transferred laterally between co-inhabitants of nitrogen-poor environments. As previous phylogenetic studies of nifH and nifD have not completely resolved the evolutionary history of nitrogenase, sixty nifD, nifK, and combined nifDK genes were analyzed using Bayesian, maximum likelihood, and parsimony algorithms to determine whether the individual and combined datasets could provide additional information. The results show congruence between the 16S and nifDK phylogenies at the phyla level and generally support vertical descent with loss. However, statistically significant differences between tree topographies suggest a complex evolutionary history with the underlying pattern of vertical descent obscured by recurring lateral transfer events and different patterns of evolution between the genes. Results support inheritance from the Last Common ancestor or an ancient lateral transfer of the nif genes between Bacteria and Archaea, ongoing gene transfer between cohabitants of similar biogeographic regions, acquisition of nitrogen-fixing capability via symbiosis islands, possible xenologous displacement of one gene in the operon, and possible retention of ancestral genes in heterocystous cyanobacteria. Analyses support the monophyly of the Cyanobacteria, alpha beta gamma-Proteobacteria, and Actinobacteria (Frankia) and provide strong support for the placement of Frankia nif genes at the base of combined the Cyanobacteria/Proteobacteria clades.	2010	10.1007/s00239-010-9365-8
Nolte, V; Pandey, RV; Jost, S; Medinger, R; Ottenwalder, B; Boenigk, J; Schlotterer, C	Contrasting seasonal niche separation between rare and abundant taxa conceals the extent of protist diversity	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	With the advent of molecular methods, it became clear that microbial biodiversity had been vastly underestimated. Since then, species abundance patterns were determined for several environments, but temporal changes in species composition were not studied to the same level of resolution. Using massively parallel sequencing on the 454 GS FLX platform we identified a highly dynamic turnover of the seasonal abundance of protists in the Austrian lake Fuschlsee. We show that seasonal abundance patterns of protists closely match their biogeographic distribution. The stable predominance of few highly abundant taxa, which previously led to the suggestion of a low global protist species richness, is contrasted by a highly dynamic turnover of rare species. We suggest that differential seasonality of rare and abundant protist taxa explains the-so far-conflicting evidence in the everything is everywhere dispute. Consequently temporal sampling is basic for adequate diversity and species richness estimates.	2010	10.1111/j.1365-294X.2010.04669.x
Balmas, V; Migheli, Q; Scherm, B; Garau, P; ODonnell, K; Ceccherelli, G; Rang, SC; Geiser, DM	Multilocus phylogenetics show high levels of endemic fusaria inhabiting Sardinian soils (Tyrrhenian Islands)	MYCOLOGIA	The Mediterranean island of Sardinia is well known for high levels of vascular plant diversity and endemism, hut little is known about its microbial diversity. Under the hypothesis that Fusarium species would show similarly high diversity, we estimated variability in Fusarium species composition among 10 sites around the island. Markers previously adopted for multilocus sequence typing (MLST) were used to determine multilocus DNA sequence haplotypes for 263 Fusarium isolates. In addition portions of the translation elongation factor 1-alpha and second largest RNA polymerase subunit genes were sequenced for all isolates. The intergenic spacer (IGS) region of the nuclear ribosomal RNA gene repeat was sequenced for members of the F. oxysporum species complex (FOSC), and a portion of the nuclear ribosomal RNA gene repeat comprising the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) and part of the large nuclear ribosomal RNA subunit was sequenced for members of the F. solani species complex (FSSC). Seventy-three multilocus haplotypes were identified among the 263 isolates typed, of which 48 represented FOSC and FSSC. Thirty-seven of 48 FOSC two-locus and FSSC three-locus haplotypes had not been observed previously. The 38 non-FOSC/FSSC fusaria comprised 25 haplotypes distributed among 10 species, five of which appear to represent novel, phylogenetically distinct species. In general newly discovered haplotypes were restricted to one or a few sites. All FSSC isolates represented new haplotypes in phylogenetic species FSSC 5 and 9, which differ from the phylogenetic species dominant in soils worldwide. No obvious correlations were found between haplotype diversity and geospatial or habitat. distribution. Overall these results indicate a high degree of Fusarium genetic diversity on multiple geographic scales within Sardinia. These results contrast with recent work showing that common, cosmopolitan Species dominate Sardinias Trichoderma biodiversity. All data are available for access and viewing from the FUSARIUM-ID database.	2010	10.3852/09-201
Nilsson, MA; Churakov, G; Sommer, M; Van Tran, N; Zemann, A; Brosius, J; Schmitz, J	Tracking Marsupial Evolution Using Archaic Genomic Retroposon Insertions	PLOS BIOLOGY	The Australasian and South American marsupial mammals, such as kangaroos and opossums, are the closest living relatives to placental mammals, having shared a common ancestor around 130 million years ago. The evolutionary relationships among the seven marsupial orders have, however, so far eluded resolution. In particular, the relationships between the four Australasian and three South American marsupial orders have been intensively debated since the South American order Microbiotheria was taxonomically moved into the group Australidelphia. Australidelphia is significantly supported by both molecular and morphological data and comprises the four Australasian marsupial orders and the South American order Microbiotheria, indicating a complex, ancient, biogeographic history of marsupials. However, the exact phylogenetic position of Microbiotheria within Australidelphia has yet to be resolved using either sequence or morphological data analysis. Here, we provide evidence from newly established and virtually homoplasy-free retroposon insertion markers for the basal relationships among marsupial orders. Fifty-three phylogenetically informative markers were retrieved after in silico and experimental screening of similar to 217,000 retroposon-containing loci from opossum and kangaroo. The four Australasian orders share a single origin with Microbiotheria as their closest sister group, supporting a clear divergence between South American and Australasian marsupials. In addition, the new data place the South American opossums (Didelphimorphia) as the first branch of the marsupial tree. The exhaustive computational and experimental evidence provides important insight into the evolution of retroposable elements in the marsupial genome. Placing the retroposon insertion pattern in a paleobiogeographic context indicates a single marsupial migration from South America to Australia. The now firmly established phylogeny can be used to determine the direction of genomic changes and morphological transitions within marsupials.	2010	10.1371/journal.pbio.1000436
Grossart, HP; Dziallas, C; Leunert, F; Tang, KW	Bacteria dispersal by hitchhiking on zooplankton	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	Microorganisms and zooplankton are both important components of aquatic food webs. Although both inhabit the same environment, they are often regarded as separate functional units that are indirectly connected through nutrient cycling and trophic cascade. However, research on pathogenic and nonpathogenic bacteria has shown that direct association with zooplankton has significant influences on the bacterias physiology and ecology. We used stratified migration columns to study vertical dispersal of hitchhiking bacteria through migrating zooplankton across a density gradient that was otherwise impenetrable for bacteria in both upward and downward directions (conveyor-belt hypothesis). The strength of our experiments is to permit quantitative estimation of transport and release of associated bacteria: vertical migration of Daphnia magna yielded an average dispersal rate of 1.3 x 10(5).cells.Daphnia(-1.) migration cycle-1 for the lake bacterium Brevundimonas sp. Bidirectional vertical dispersal by migrating D. magna was also shown for two other bacterial species, albeit at lower rates. The prediction that diurnally migrating zooplankton acquire different attached bacterial communities from hypolimnion and epilimnion between day and night was subsequently confirmed in our field study. In mesotrophic Lake Nehmitz, D. hyalina showed pronounced diel vertical migration along with significant diurnal changes in attached bacterial community composition. These results confirm that hitchhiking on migrating animals can be an important mechanism for rapidly relocating microorganisms, including pathogens, allowing them to access otherwise inaccessible resources.	2010	10.1073/pnas.1000668107
Sun, W; Dai, SK; Jiang, SM; Wang, GH; Liu, GH; Wu, HB; Li, X	Culture-dependent and culture-independent diversity of Actinobacteria associated with the marine sponge Hymeniacidon perleve from the South China Sea	ANTONIE VAN LEEUWENHOEK INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF GENERAL AND MOLECULAR MICROBIOLOGY	In this report, the diversity of Actinobacteria associated with the marine sponge Hymeniacidon perleve collected from a remote island of the South China Sea was investigated employing classical cultivation and characterization, 16S rDNA library construction, 16S rDNA-restriction fragment length polymorphism (rDNA-RFLP) and phylogenetic analysis. A total of 184 strains were isolated using seven different media and 24 isolates were selected according to their morphological characteristics for phylogenetic analysis on the basis of their 16S rRNA gene sequences. Results showed that the 24 isolates were assigned to six genera including Salinispora, Gordonia, Mycobacterium, Nocardia, Rhodococcus and Streptomyces. This is the first report that Salinispora is present in a marine sponge from the South China Sea. Subsequently, 26 rDNA clones were selected from 191 clones in an Actinobacteria-specific 16S rDNA library of the H. perleve sample, using the RFLP technique for sequencing and phylogenetic analysis. In total, 26 phylotypes were clustered in eight known genera of Actinobacteria including Mycobacterium, Amycolatopsis, Arthrobacter, Brevibacterium, Microlunatus, Nocardioides, Pseudonocardia and Streptomyces. This study contributes to our understanding of actinobacterial diversity in the marine sponge H. perleve from the South China Sea.	2010	10.1007/s10482-010-9430-8
Hoffman, MT; Arnold, AE	Diverse Bacteria Inhabit Living Hyphae of Phylogenetically Diverse Fungal Endophytes	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Both the establishment and outcomes of plant-fungus symbioses can be influenced by abiotic factors, the interplay of fungal and plant genotypes, and additional microbes associated with fungal mycelia. Recently bacterial endosymbionts were documented in soilborne Glomeromycota and Mucoromycotina and in at least one species each of mycorrhizal Basidiomycota and Ascomycota. Here we show for the first time that phylogenetically diverse endohyphal bacteria occur in living hyphae of diverse foliar endophytes, including representatives of four classes of Ascomycota. We examined 414 isolates of endophytic fungi, isolated from photosynthetic tissues of six species of cupressaceous trees in five biogeographic provinces, for endohyphal bacteria using microscopy and molecular techniques. Viable bacteria were observed within living hyphae of endophytic Pezizomycetes, Dothideomycetes, Eurotiomycetes, and Sordariomycetes from all tree species and biotic regions surveyed. A focus on 29 fungus/bacterium associations revealed that bacterial and fungal phylogenies were incongruent with each other and with taxonomic relationships of host plants. Overall, eight families and 15 distinct genotypes of endohyphal bacteria were recovered; most were members of the Proteobacteria, but a small number of Bacillaceae also were found, including one that appears to occur as an endophyte of plants. Frequent loss of bacteria following subculturing suggests a facultative association. Our study recovered distinct lineages of endohyphal bacteria relative to previous studies, is the first to document their occurrence in foliar endophytes representing four of the most species-rich classes of fungi, and highlights for the first time their diversity and phylogenetic relationships with regard both to the endophytes they inhabit and the plants in which these endophyte-bacterium symbiota occur.	2010	10.1128/AEM.02928-09
Logue, JB; Lindstrom, ES	Species sorting affects bacterioplankton community composition as determined by 16S rDNA and 16S rRNA fingerprints	ISME JOURNAL	To understand the mechanisms determining community composition, it is essential to distinctively unravel the importance of local from that of regional processes. In this effort, the mechanisms underlying bacterioplankton community assembly were analysed in eight lakes of short water residence time (WRT) during a four-season sampling campaign. Bacterioplankton community composition (BCC) was determined using terminal-restriction fragment length polymorphism (t-RFLP) on the 16S rRNA gene (16S rDNA) and 16S rRNA. The relationship between similarity in BCC between a lake and its major inlet on the one hand and cell import per cell production rate from the inlet to the lake epilimnion on the other was used as a measure of the importance of cell dispersal (mass effects) for community assembly. Low similarities in BCC between lakes and their inlets were observed even at short WRTs, and the degree of similarity correlated better with the environmental conditions in lakes and streams than with cell import per cell production rates. Thus, mass effects seemed less important for local lake BCC in comparison to environmental habitat characteristics (species sorting). Analyses of 16S rDNA and 16S rRNA community fingerprints yielded similar results, indicating that species-sorting dynamics exerted an equally important effect on both the abundant and active fraction within the studied bacterioplankton communities. The ISME Journal (2010) 4, 729-738; doi:10.1038/ismej.2009.156; published online 4 February 2010	2010	10.1038/ismej.2009.156
Milferstedt, K; Youngblut, ND; Whitaker, RJ	Spatial structure and persistence of methanogen populations in humic bog lakes	ISME JOURNAL	Patterns of diversity within methanogenic archaea in humic bog lakes are quantified over time and space to determine the roles that spatial isolation and seasonal mixing play in structuring microbial populations. The protein encoding gene mcrA is used as a molecular marker for the detection of fine-scale differences between methanogens in four dimictic bog lakes in which the water column is mixed twice a year and one meromictic lake that is permanently stratified. Although similar sequences are observed in each bog lake, each lake has its own characteristic set of persisting sequence types, indicating that methanogen populations are delimited either by low migration between the anaerobic hypolimnia or by lake-specific selection. The meromictic lake is differentiated from all other lakes and contains sequences with a higher degree of microdiversity than the dimictic lakes. By relating the structure of diversity to the depth of each bog lake, we propose the hypothesis that the deeper parts of the water column favor microdiversification of methanogens, whereas the periodically disturbed water column of shallower dimictic lakes promote genetically more diverse methanogen communities. The ISME Journal (2010) 4, 764-776; doi:10.1038/ismej.2010.7; published online 25 February 2010	2010	10.1038/ismej.2010.7
Wilson, GS; Raftos, DA; Gillings, MR; Nair, SV	Heterogeneity of surface attached microbial communities from Sydney Harbour, Australia	MARINE GENOMICS	There is limited information on bacterial communities attached to marine surfaces. These surface attached bacterial communities can vary at a micro scale and these differences may be due to surface characteristics in marine environments. The current study investigates the heterogeneity of bacterial communities on five different marine invertebrates (Heliocidaris erythrogramma, Austrocochlea concamerata, Crassostrea gigas, Dendrilla rosea, and Actinia tenebrosa), the alga, Lobophora variegata and marine gravel from a 20 m x 20 m quadrant in Camp Cove, Sydney Harbour, Australia. Terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (TRFLP) of 16S sequences showed that each surface contained unique combinations of TRFLP fragment lengths. Phylogenetic analysis of random clones picked from clone libraries constructed from the amplified 16S sequences revealed that 165 sequences from the communities on different surfaces clustered into distinct clades. None of the bacteria identified by 16S sequencing of the whole (uncultured) microbial communities was detected after cultivation. Overall, the study shows surface type plays a major role in shaping microbial communities in marine environments. Crown Copyright (C) 2010 Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2010	10.1016/j.margen.2010.08.001
Read, TD; Turingan, RS; Cook, C; Giese, H; Thomann, UH; Hogan, CC; Tan, E; Selden, RF	Rapid Multi-Locus Sequence Typing Using Microfluidic Biochips	PLOS ONE	Background: Multiple locus sequence typing (MLST) has become a central genotyping strategy for analysis of bacterial populations. The scheme involves de novo sequencing of 6-8 housekeeping loci to assign unique sequence types. In this work we adapted MLST to a rapid microfluidics platform in order to enhance speed and reduce laboratory labor time. Methodology/Principal Findings: Using two integrated microfluidic devices, DNA was purified from 100 Bacillus cereus soil isolates, used as a template for multiplex amplification of 7 loci and sequenced on forward and reverse strands. The time on instrument from loading genomic DNA to generation of electropherograms was only 1.5 hours. We obtained full-length sequence of all seven MLST alleles from 84 representing 46 different Sequence Types. At least one allele could be sequenced from a further 15 strains. The nucleotide diversity of B. cereus isolated in this study from one location in Rockville, Maryland (0.04 substitutions per site) was found to be as great as the global collection of isolates. Conclusions/Significance: Biogeographical investigation of pathogens is only one of a panoply of possible applications of microfluidics based MLST; others include microbiologic forensics, biothreat identification, and rapid characterization of human clinical samples.	2010	10.1371/journal.pone.0010595
Kato, S; Takano, Y; Kakegawa, T; Oba, H; Inoue, K; Kobayashi, C; Utsumi, M; Marumo, K; Kobayashi, K; Ito, Y; Ishibashi, J; Yamagishi, A	Biogeography and Biodiversity in Sulfide Structures of Active and Inactive Vents at Deep-Sea Hydrothermal Fields of the Southern Mariana Trough	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	The abundance, diversity, activity, and composition of microbial communities in sulfide structures both of active and inactive vents were investigated by culture-independent methods. These sulfide structures were collected at four hydrothermal fields, both on-and off-axis of the back-arc spreading center of the Southern Mariana Trough. The microbial abundance and activity in the samples were determined by analyzing total organic content, enzymatic activity, and copy number of the 16S rRNA gene. To assess the diversity and composition of the microbial communities, 16S rRNA gene clone libraries including bacterial and archaeal phylotypes were constructed from the sulfide structures. Despite the differences in the geological settings among the sampling points, phylotypes related to the Epsilonproteobacteria and cultured hyperthermophilic archaea were abundant in the libraries from the samples of active vents. In contrast, the relative abundance of these phylotypes was extremely low in the libraries from the samples of inactive vents. These results suggest that the composition of microbial communities within sulfide structures dramatically changes depending on the degree of hydrothermal activity, which was supported by statistical analyses. Comparative analyses suggest that the abundance, activity and diversity of microbial communities within sulfide structures of inactive vents are likely to be comparable to or higher than those in active vent structures, even though the microbial community composition is different between these two types of vents. The microbial community compositions in the sulfide structures of inactive vents were similar to those in seafloor basaltic rocks rather than those in marine sediments or the sulfide structures of active vents, suggesting that the microbial community compositions on the seafloor may be constrained by the available energy sources. Our findings provide helpful information for understanding the biogeography, biodiversity and microbial ecosystems in marine environments.	2010	10.1128/AEM.00478-10
Decaens, T	Macroecological patterns in soil communities	GLOBAL ECOLOGY AND BIOGEOGRAPHY	Aim To review published evidence regarding the factors that influence the geographic variation in diversity of soil organisms at different spatial scales. Location Global. Methods A search of the relevant literature was conducted using the Web of Science and the authors personal scientific database as the major sources. Special attention was paid to include seminal studies, highly cited papers and/or studies highlighting novel results. Results Despite their significant contribution to global biodiversity, our taxonomic knowledge of soil biota is still poor compared with that of most above-ground organisms. This is particularly evident for small-bodied taxa. Global patterns of soil biodiversity distribution have been poorly documented and are thought to differ significantly from what is reported above-ground. Based on existing data, it appears that microorganisms do not respond to large-scale environmental gradients in the same way as metazoans. Whereas soil microflora seem to be mainly represented by cosmopolitan species, soil animals respond to altitudinal, latitudinal or area gradients in the same way as described for above-ground organisms. At local scales, there is less evidence that local factors regulate above- and below-ground communities in the same way. Except for a few taxa, the humpbacked response to stress and disturbance gradients doesnt seem to apply underground. Soil communities thus appear weakly structured by competition, although competitive constraints may account for assembly rules within specific taxa. The main factor constraining local soil biodiversity is the compact and heterogeneous nature of soils, which provides unrivalled potential for niche partitioning, thus allowing high levels of local biodiversity. This heterogeneity is increased by the impact of ecosystem engineers that generate resource patchiness at a range of spatio-temporal scales.	2010	10.1111/j.1466-8238.2009.00517.x
Tennessen, JA; Blouin, MS	A revised leopard frog phylogeny allows a more detailed examination of adaptive evolution at ranatuerin-2 antimicrobial peptide loci	IMMUNOGENETICS	Ranatuerins are antimicrobial peptides of the innate immune system found in ranid frogs. We previously presented evidence that a positive selective sweep had fixed a single allele at the Ranatuerin2 locus in the northern leopard frog (Rana pipiens). In this paper, we further investigate the evolutionary history of ranatuerins as follows. First, we sequenced Ranatuerin2 in additional individuals of R. pipiens and related frog species and compared diversity and divergence at these sequences with that at four putatively neutrally evolving loci. Second, we asked whether the evolutionary patterns observed at Ranatuerin2 were typical for ranatuerin loci by sequencing our samples at a paralogous locus, Ranatuerin2b, and performing the same neutrality tests. Ranatuerin2b also showed strong and significant evidence of at least one selective sweep. Third, we used the neutral loci to independently resolve conflicting hypotheses about phylogenetic relationships among our study species. Both the neutral loci and the ranatuerin loci supported an older phylogeny inferred from allozyme data and strongly rejected a more recent phylogeny inferred from mitochondrial DNA. Finally, in order to test whether the sweep was driven by the evolution of substantially new peptide function, we used the phylogeny to reconstruct the hypothetical Ranatuerin2 peptide that existed before the sweep. We synthesized this peptide and tested its activity and that of the extant peptide against six bacterial pathogens of frogs. We observed antibacterial activity but found no significant functional differences between the two peptides.	2010	10.1007/s00251-010-0430-7
Yang, J; Smith, HG; Sherratt, TN; Wilkinson, DM	Is There a Size Limit for Cosmopolitan Distribution in Free-Living Microorganisms? A Biogeographical Analysis of Testate Amoebae from Polar Areas	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	A long-standing debate in microbial ecology is the extent to which free-living microorganisms exhibit cosmopolitan distributions. We use a comparison of testate amoebae communities in cold polar locations (Arctic, Antarctic, and Tibet) to investigate how a microorganisms size affects its probability of having a cosmopolitan distribution. We show that the probability a given taxa being reported in all three locations increases as testate size decreases. Likewise, excluding those testates found only in Tibet, very small testates (< 20 mu m) are more likely to occur in both the Arctic and Antarctic than in either of these poles alone. Attempting to correct for phylogeny reduces the number of statistically significant relationships-both because of decreased sample size and potentially real phylogenetic patterns, although some size-dependent effects were still apparent. In particular, taxa found in both the Arctic and Antarctic poles were significantly smaller than congeneric taxa found only in Tibet. This pattern may in part be due to habitat effects, with the Tibetan samples being more likely to have come from aquatic sites which may be more suitable for larger taxa. Overall, our analysis suggests that, at least within testate amoebae, a cosmopolitan distribution becomes increasingly common as median taxon size decreases.	2010	10.1007/s00248-009-9615-8
Maul, J; Drinkwater, L	Short-term plant species impact on microbial community structure in soils with long-term agricultural history	PLANT AND SOIL	The goal of our study was to capture the short-term effects of individual plant species on an established microbial community in a soil with a well-defined agricultural history. Using biochemical and molecular techniques we quantified the effects of plant species on changes in the soil microbial community over an 8-week time-course. We conducted a greenhouse experiment using field soil from a site that was managed as a Zea mays monoculture for over 50 years. The conditioned soil provided a baseline from which changes in microbial community composition through the effects of newly introduced plants could be determined. Within a short time frame (8 weeks), introduced plants influenced the soil microbial community in ways unique to each plant. Some species (Fagopyrm esculentum and xTriticosecale spp.) resulted in an increase of total microbial community richness, diversity and the stimulation of new microbial species not associated with the legacy vegetation. Other plants (Vicia villosa and Lolium multiflorum) tended to reduce community diversity. We suggest root surface area is good general predictor of rhizosphere microbial community diversity, but in some cases other plant traits may have dominant influence on plant-induced changes in microbial community composition.	2010	10.1007/s11104-009-0211-y
Cermeno, P; de Vargas, C; Abrantes, F; Falkowski, PG	Phytoplankton Biogeography and Community Stability in the Ocean	PLOS ONE	Background: Despite enormous environmental variability linked to glacial/interglacial climates of the Pleistocene, we have recently shown that marine diatom communities evolved slowly through gradual changes over the past 1.5 million years. Identifying the causes of this ecological stability is key for understanding the mechanisms that control the tempo and mode of community evolution. Methodology/Principal Findings: If community assembly were controlled by local environmental selection rather than dispersal, environmental perturbations would change community composition, yet, this could revert once environmental conditions returned to previous-like states. We analyzed phytoplankton community composition across >10(4) km latitudinal transects in the Atlantic Ocean and show that local environmental selection of broadly dispersed species primarily controls community structure. Consistent with these results, three independent fossil records of marine diatoms over the past 250,000 years show cycles of community departure and recovery tightly synchronized with the temporal variations in Earths climate. Conclusions/Significance: Changes in habitat conditions dramatically alter community structure, yet, we conclude that the high dispersal of marine planktonic microbes erases the legacy of past environmental conditions, thereby decreasing the tempo of community evolution.	2010	10.1371/journal.pone.0010037
Ranjard, L; Dequiedt, S; Jolivet, C; Saby, NPA; Thioulouse, J; Harmand, J; Loisel, P; Rapaport, A; Fall, S; Simonet, P; Joffre, R; Boure, NCP; Maron, PA; Mougel, C; Martin, MP; Toutain, B; Arrouays, D; Lemanceau, P	Biogeography of soil microbial communities: a review and a description of the ongoing french national initiative	AGRONOMY FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT	Microbial biogeography is the study of the distribution of microbial diversity on large scales of space and time. This science aims at understanding biodiversity regulation and its link with ecosystem biological functioning, goods and services such as maintenance of productivity, of soil and atmospheric quality, and of soil health. Although the initial concept dates from the early 20th century (Beijerinck (1913) De infusies en de ontdekking der backterien, in: Jaarboek van de Knoniklijke Akademie van Wetenschappen, Muller, Amsterdam), only recently have an increasing number of studies have investigated the biogeographical patterns of soil microbial diversity. A such delay is due to the constraints of the microbial models, the need to develop relevant molecular and bioinformatic tools to assess microbial diversity, and the non-availability of an adequate sampling strategy. Consequently, the conclusions from microbial ecology studies have rarely been generally applicable and even the fundamental power-laws differ because the taxa-area relationship and the influence of global and distal parameters on the spatial distribution of microbial communities have not been examined. In this article we define and discuss the scientific, technical and operational limits and outcomes resulting from soil microbial biogeography together with the technical and logistical feasibility. The main results are that microbial communities are not stochastically distributed on a wide scale and that biogeographical patterns are more influenced by local parameters such as soil type and land use than by distal ones, e. g. climate and geomorphology, contrary to plants and animals. We then present the European soil biological survey network, focusing on the French national initiative and the ECOMIC-RMQS project. The objective of the ECOMIC-RMQS project is to characterise the density and diversity of bacterial communities in all soils in the RMQS library in order to assess, for the first time, not only microbial biogeography across the whole of France but also the impact of land use on soil biodiversity (Reseau de Mesures de la Qualite des Sols = French Soil Quality Monitoring Network, 2200 soils covering all the French territory with a systematic grid of sampling). The scientific, technical and logistical outputs are examined with a view to the future prospects needed to develop this scientific domain and its applications in sustainable land use.	2010	10.1051/agro/2009033
Luke, C; Krause, S; Cavigiolo, S; Greppi, D; Lupotto, E; Frenzel, P	Biogeography of wetland rice methanotrophs	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	We focused on the functional guild of methane oxidizing bacteria (MOB) as model organisms to get deeper insights into microbial biogeography. The pmoA gene was used as a functional and phylogenetic marker for MOB in two approaches: (i) a pmoA database (> 4000 sequences) was evaluated to obtain insights into MOB diversity in Italian rice paddies, and paddy fields worldwide. The results show a wide geographical distribution of pmoA genotypes that seem to be specifically adapted to paddy fields (e.g. Rice Paddy Cluster 1 and Rice Paddy Cluster 2). (ii) On the smaller geographical scale, we designed a factorial experiment including three different locations, two rice varieties and two habitats (soil and roots) within each of three rice fields. Multivariate analysis of terminal restriction fragment analysis profiles revealed different community patterns at the three field sites, located 10-20 km apart. Root samples were characterized by high abundance of type I MOB whereas the rice variety had no effect. With the agronomical practice being nearly identical, historical contingencies might be responsible for the field site differences. Considering a large reservoir of viable yet inactive MOB cells acting as a microbial seed bank, environmental conditions might have selected and activated a different subset at a time thereby shaping the community.	2010	10.1111/j.1462-2920.2009.02131.x
Uroz, S; Buee, M; Murat, C; Frey-Klett, P; Martin, F	Pyrosequencing reveals a contrasted bacterial diversity between oak rhizosphere and surrounding soil	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY REPORTS	Several reports have highlighted that forest soil samples are more phylum-rich than agricultural soil samples. However, little is known about the structure and richness of the bacterial communities in forest soil. Using high-throughput next generation 454 pyrosequencing, we deeply investigated the diversity of bacterial communities colonizing the oak rhizosphere niche and the surrounding soil. From three spatially independent soil samples, we obtained over 300 000 partial 16S rRNA gene sequences. The most abundant bacterial groups were the Acidobacteria, Proteobacteria and unclassified bacteria. Multifactorial analysis of the relative proportions of the different phyla revealed a net differentiation of the bacterial communities present in the rhizosphere and soil environments, suggesting an oak rhizosphere effect. Significantly more beta-, gamma-and unclassified Proteobacteria inhabited the rhizosphere when compared with the surrounding soil. Conversely, significantly more unclassified bacteria were detected in the bulk soil than in the rhizosphere, demonstrating that the soil remains a challenging reservoir of complexity. This work increases our understanding of the niche effect on bacterial diversity and on the rare phylogenetic groups inhabiting the soil.	2010	10.1111/j.1758-2229.2009.00117.x
Ionescu, D; Hindiyeh, M; Malkawi, H; Oren, A	Biogeography of thermophilic cyanobacteria: insights from the Zerka Main hot springs (Jordan)	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	The thermal springs of Zerka Main, with waters emerging at temperatures up to 63 degrees C, have been of interest to biologists already from the beginning of the 19th century. These waters, springing out from below ground and flowing into the hypersaline Dead Sea, form an isolated environment from a biogeographic point of view. We have investigated the molecular diversity of the cyanobacteria in the springs. The diversity discovered was large, defining operational taxonomic units (OTUs) by a cutoff of 97% similarity; 10 major OTUs were found, including an as yet unidentified cluster of cyanobacteria. The various patterns of similarities of our sequences to others obtained from different thermal environments worldwide led us to rethink the common theories in biogeography. Based on the data obtained, we suggest that there is no constant geographical separation of microorganisms; however, local speciation does occur at a rate dictated mainly by local community dynamics and the rate of entrance of new organisms into the ecosystem.	2010	10.1111/j.1574-6941.2010.00835.x
Oakley, BB; Carbonero, F; van der Gast, CJ; Hawkins, RJ; Purdy, KJ	Evolutionary divergence and biogeography of sympatric niche-differentiated bacterial populations	ISME JOURNAL	Using multiple lines of evidence from denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis, environmental sequences and TaqMan quantitative PCR assays targeting a functional gene for sulfate respiration (dsr) affiliated with the geochemically important genus Desulfobulbus, we revealed strongly restricted distributions of specific genotypes and populations correlated with sampling position along an estuarine gradient free of dispersal barriers. Evidence of evolutionary divergence of populations was provided by three complementary analyses. First, analysis of molecular variance rejected the null hypothesis that genetic diversity within each sampling site was not significantly different than that of all sites pooled together (P<0.0001). Second, UniFrac and Parsimony tests showed phylogenetic clustering of sampling sites was highly significant (P<0.001). Third, pairwise F(ST) statistics showed significant evolutionary divergence of populations based on the location in the estuary. To test the hypothesis that environmental niche-driven evolutionary divergence can create and maintain microbial biogeography, we used both statistical inference and an experimental manipulation to assess the independent effects of environment and geography. Significant effects of each on genotype distributions and population divergence supported the hypothesis. Our data are consistent with both sympatric and parapatric models of speciation, and suggest niche partitioning can contribute to evolutionary divergence and observable biogeographic patterns in microbial communities even among closely related taxa at limited spatial scales without significant barriers to dispersal. The ISME Journal (2010) 4, 488-497; doi:10.1038/ismej.2009.146; published online 7 January 2010	2010	10.1038/ismej.2009.146
Angel, R; Soares, MIM; Ungar, ED; Gillor, O	Biogeography of soil archaea and bacteria along a steep precipitation gradient	ISME JOURNAL	For centuries, biodiversity has spellbound biologists focusing mainly on macroorganisms diversity and almost neglecting the geographic mediated dynamics of microbial communities. We surveyed the diversity of soil bacteria and archaea along a steep precipitation gradient ranging from the Negev Desert in the south of Israel (<100mm annual rain) to the Mediterranean forests in the north (>900mm annual rain). Soil samples were retrieved from triplicate plots at five long-term ecological research stations, collected from two types of patches: plant interspaces and underneath the predominant perennial at each site. The molecular fingerprint of each soil sample was taken using terminal restriction length polymorphism of the 16S rRNA gene to evaluate the bacterial and archaeal community composition and diversity within and across sites. The difference in community compositions was not statistically significant within sites (P = 0.33 and 0.77 for bacteria and archaea, respectively), but it differed profoundly by ecosystem type. These differences could largely be explained by the precipitation gradient combined with the vegetation cover: the archaeal and bacterial operational taxonomic units were unique to each climatic region, that is, arid, semiarid and Mediterranean (P = 0.0001, for both domains), as well as patch type (P = 0.009 and 0.02 for bacteria and archaea, respectively). Our results suggest that unlike macroorganisms that are more diverse in the Mediterranean ecosystems compared with the desert sites, archaeal and bacterial diversities are not constrained by precipitation. However, the community composition is unique to the climate and vegetation cover that delineates each ecosystem. The ISME Journal (2010) 4, 553-563; doi:10.1038/ismej.2009.136; published online 24 December 2009	2010	10.1038/ismej.2009.136
Galand, PE; Potvin, M; Casamayor, EO; Lovejoy, C	Hydrography shapes bacterial biogeography of the deep Arctic Ocean	ISME JOURNAL	It has been long debated as to whether marine microorganisms have a ubiquitous distribution or patterns of biogeography, but recently a consensus for the existence of microbial biogeography is emerging. However, the factors controlling the distribution of marine bacteria remain poorly understood. In this study, we combine pyrosequencing and traditional Sanger sequencing of the 16S rRNA gene to describe in detail bacterial communities from the deep Arctic Ocean. We targeted three separate water masses, from three oceanic basins and show that bacteria in the Arctic Ocean have a biogeography. The biogeographical distribution of bacteria was explained by the hydrography of the Arctic Ocean and subsequent circulation of its water masses. Overall, this first taxonomic description of deep Arctic bacteria communities revealed an abundant presence of SAR11 (Alphaproteobacteria), SAR406, SAR202 (Chloroflexi) and SAR324 (Deltaproteobacteria) clusters. Within each cluster, the abundance of specific phylotypes significantly varied among water masses. Water masses probably act as physical barriers limiting the dispersal and controlling the diversity of bacteria in the ocean. Consequently, marine microbial biogeography involves more than geographical distances, as it is also dynamically associated with oceanic processes. Our ocean scale study suggests that it is essential to consider the coupling between microbial and physical oceanography to fully understand the diversity and function of marine microbes. The ISME Journal (2010) 4, 564-576; doi:10.1038/ismej.2009.134; published online 10 December 2009	2010	10.1038/ismej.2009.134
Jiao, NZ; Zhang, F; Hong, N	Significant roles of bacteriochlorophylla supplemental to chlorophylla in the ocean	ISME JOURNAL	Bacteriochlorophylla (BChla)-based phototrophy cannot be ignored in understanding of carbon cycle in the ocean. However, the role of BChla relative to chlorophylla (Chla) along environmental gradients remains unclear. On the basis of the investigations in the Pacific, Indian Oceans and the China Seas, we show that the average contribution of BChla relative to Chla is higher in open-ocean compared with shelf environments, the estimated BChla-based phototrophy could reduce respiratory organic carbon consumption of 2.4% and 5.4% of the primary productions in the shelf and oceanic waters, respectively. This suggests that BChla-based phototrophy has an important role supplemental to Chla-based photosynthesis in the oceans carbon cycle and would be critical for a marine region to be a sink or a source of atmospheric CO(2). The ISME Journal (2010) 4, 595-597; doi:10.1038/ismej.2009.135; published online 10 December 2009	2010	10.1038/ismej.2009.135
Salwan, R; Gulati, A; Kasana, RC	Phylogenetic diversity of alkaline protease-producing psychrotrophic bacteria from glacier and cold environments of Lahaul and Spiti, India	JOURNAL OF BASIC MICROBIOLOGY	The diversity of proteolytic bacteria associated with a glacier and cold environment soils from three different locations in Lahaul and Spiti, India was investigated. Two hundred seventeen bacterial strains were isolated in pure culture. Subsequently these strains were screened for protease-production and one hundred nine showed protease production. From these protease producing psychrotrophic bacteria twenty showing high enzyme production at low temperature and alkaline pH were characterized and identified. The 16S rRNA phylogenetic analysis revealed that none of the strains showed 100% identity with the validly published species of various genera. Isolates belonged to three classes i.e. Actinobacteria, Gammaproteobacteria and Alphaproteobacteria, and were affiliated with the genera Acinetobacter, Arthrobacter, Mycoplana, Pseudomonas, Pseudoxanthomonas, Serratia and Stenotrophomonas. The optimal growth temperature ranged from 10 to 28 degrees C and interestingly, high levels of enzyme productions were measured at growth temperatures between 15 and 25 degrees C, for most of the isolates in plate assay. Most of the isolates were found to produce at least two other hydrolytic enzymes along with protease. The crude protease from one strain was active over broad range of temperature and pH with optima at 30 degrees C and 7.5, respectively. The protease activity was enhanced by Ca(2+), dithiothreitol and beta-mercaptoethanol. While Na(+), Hg(2+), Zn(2+), Mn(2+), phenylmethanesulfonyl fluoride and ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid did not showed much effect on protease activity. The results enrich our knowledge on the psychrotrophic bacterial diversity and biogeographic distribution of enzyme producing bacteria in western Himalaya.	2010	10.1002/jobm.200800400
Lowe, CD; Montagnes, DJS; Martin, LE; Watts, PC	Patterns of Genetic Diversity in the Marine Heterotrophic Flagellate Oxyrrhis marina (Alveolata: Dinophyceae)	PROTIST	Oxyrrhis marina is an important model in ecological studies of free-living protists. Despite this, O. marina has rarely been studied in the environment and noexplicit distributional studies exist. Further, phylogenetic data for a small number of isolates indicate that O. marina constitutes two divergent lineages. Here, we quantify phylogenetic variation between 58 globally distributed O. marina isolates using 5.8S-internal transcribed spacer 1 and 2 rDNA (5.8S ITS) and cytochrome c oxidase I (COI) partial sequences. 5.8S ITS and COI phylogenies both partitioned O. marina into four clades, which formed two lineages; mean sequence identity for 5.8S ITS and COI respectively was similar to 40 and 90% between these two lineages. Sequence identities for 5.8S ITS/COI between clades within lineages were 66.3/99.4% (lineage 1: clade 1 vs 2) and 42.3/99.1% (lineage 2: clade 3 vs 4). rDNA mutation rates in O. marina appear to be abnormally high and were not interpreted in a species delineation context. Based on variation in COI sequence and comparisons with other protists, we suggest that O. marina lineages may constitute two species. In a geographic context, evidence of spatial restriction but also extensive overlap between O. marina clades occurred. Further, clade abundances varied considerably: clades 1 and 2 (belonging to one lineage) were abundant and widespread; in contrast, clades 3 and 4 (belonging to the second lineage) were rare and spatially restricted (occurring only in the Mediterranean or in culture collection). There is need for further phylogenetic and taxonomic studies to assess species delineation in O. marina, and for the application of high resolution genetic markers to resolve processes driving genetic diversity in this important model organism. (C) 2009 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.	2010	10.1016/j.protis.2009.11.003
Moutou, F; Pastoret, PP	Defining an invasive species	REVUE SCIENTIFIQUE ET TECHNIQUE-OFFICE INTERNATIONAL DES EPIZOOTIES	The definition of an invasive species will depend on the viewpoint of the observer, who in some cases may be responsible for introducing the species. History has taught us that humans are the species that has invaded the largest surface area of the planet. So, before going on to propose a few definitions, this article describes three different examples or types of example in which domestic animal species, wild animal species and microorganisms (for biological pest control) have been transported intentionally By doing so, this paper uses a variety of situations to support the definitions. A contemporary argument would counter a strictly biogeographical definition with a more ecological definition The two are probably complementary In any case, these definitions should remain practical. The consequences of species movements vary. However, their health impacts should not be underestimated.	2010	
Ainsworth, TD; Thurber, RV; Gates, RD	The future of coral reefs: a microbial perspective	TRENDS IN ECOLOGY & EVOLUTION	Microbial communities respond and quickly adapt to disturbance and have central roles in ecosystem function. Yet, the many roles of coral-associated microbial communities are not currently accounted for in predicting future responses of reef ecosystems. Here, we propose that a clearer understanding of coral-associated microbial diversity and its interaction with both host and environment will identify important linkages occurring between the microbial communities and macroecological change. Characterizing these links is fundamental to understanding coral reef resilience and will improve our capacity to predict ecological change.	2010	10.1016/j.tree.2009.11.001
Tamames, J; Abellan, JJ; Pignatelli, M; Camacho, A; Moya, A	Environmental distribution of prokaryotic taxa	BMC MICROBIOLOGY	Background: The increasing availability of gene sequences of prokaryotic species in samples extracted from all kind of locations allows addressing the study of the influence of environmental patterns in prokaryotic biodiversity. We present a comprehensive study to address the potential existence of environmental preferences of prokaryotic taxa and the commonness of the specialist and generalist strategies. We also assessed the most significant environmental factors shaping the environmental distribution of taxa. Results: We used 16S rDNA sequences from 3,502 sampling experiments in natural and artificial sources. These sequences were taxonomically assigned, and the corresponding samples were also classified into a hierarchical classification of environments. We used several statistical methods to analyze the environmental distribution of taxa. Our results indicate that environmental specificity is not very common at the higher taxonomic levels (phylum to family), but emerges at lower taxonomic levels (genus and species). The most selective environmental characteristics are those of animal tissues and thermal locations. Salinity is another very important factor for constraining prokaryotic diversity. On the other hand, soil and freshwater habitats are the less restrictive environments, harboring the largest number of prokaryotic taxa. All information on taxa, samples and environments is provided at the envDB online database, http://metagenomics.uv.es/envDB. Conclusions: This is, as far as we know, the most comprehensive assessment of the distribution and diversity of prokaryotic taxa and their associations with different environments. Our data indicate that we are still far from characterizing prokaryotic diversity in any environment, except, perhaps, for human tissues such as the oral cavity and the vagina.	2010	10.1186/1471-2180-10-85
Bragg, JG; Dutkiewicz, S; Jahn, O; Follows, MJ; Chisholm, SW	Modeling Selective Pressures on Phytoplankton in the Global Ocean	PLOS ONE	Our view of marine microbes is transforming, as culture-independent methods facilitate rapid characterization of microbial diversity. It is difficult to assimilate this information into our understanding of marine microbe ecology and evolution, because their distributions, traits, and genomes are shaped by forces that are complex and dynamic. Here we incorporate diverse forces-physical, biogeochemical, ecological, and mutational-into a global ocean model to study selective pressures on a simple trait in a widely distributed lineage of picophytoplankton: the nitrogen use abilities of Synechococcus and Prochlorococcus cyanobacteria. Some Prochlorococcus ecotypes have lost the ability to use nitrate, whereas their close relatives, marine Synechococcus, typically retain it. We impose mutations for the loss of nitrogen use abilities in modeled picophytoplankton, and ask: in which parts of the ocean are mutants most disadvantaged by losing the ability to use nitrate, and in which parts are they least disadvantaged? Our model predicts that this selective disadvantage is smallest for picophytoplankton that live in tropical regions where Prochlorococcus are abundant in the real ocean. Conversely, the selective disadvantage of losing the ability to use nitrate is larger for modeled picophytoplankton that live at higher latitudes, where Synechococcus are abundant. In regions where we expect Prochlorococcus and Synechococcus populations to cycle seasonally in the real ocean, we find that model ecotypes with seasonal population dynamics similar to Prochlorococcus are less disadvantaged by losing the ability to use nitrate than model ecotypes with seasonal population dynamics similar to Synechococcus. The model predictions for the selective advantage associated with nitrate use are broadly consistent with the distribution of this ability among marine picocyanobacteria, and at finer scales, can provide insights into interactions between temporally varying ocean processes and selective pressures that may be difficult or impossible to study by other means. More generally, and perhaps more importantly, this study introduces an approach for testing hypotheses about the processes that underlie genetic variation among marine microbes, embedded in the dynamic physical, chemical, and biological forces that generate and shape this diversity.	2010	10.1371/journal.pone.0009569
Jezberova, J; Jezbera, J; Brandt, U; Lindstrom, ES; Langenheder, S; Hahn, MW	Ubiquity of Polynucleobacter necessarius ssp asymbioticus in lentic freshwater habitats of a heterogenous 2000 km2 area	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	P>We present a survey on the distribution and habitat range of Polynucleobacter necessarius ssp. asymbioticus (PnecC), a numerically and functionally important taxon in the plankton of freshwater systems. We systematically sampled stagnant freshwater habitats in a heterogeneous 2000 km2 area, together with ecologically different habitats outside this area. In total, 137 lakes, ponds and puddles were investigated, which represent an enormous diversity of habitats differing, e.g. in depth (< 10 cm - 171 m) and pH (3.9-8.5). PnecC bacteria were detected by cultivation-independent methods in all investigated habitats, and their presence was confirmed by cultivation of strains from selected habitats representing the whole studied ecological range. The determined relative abundance of the subspecies ranged from values close to the detection limit of FISH (0.2%) to 67% (average 14.5%), and the highest observed absolute abundance was 5.3 x 106 cells ml-1. Statistical analyses revealed that the abundance of PnecC bacteria was partially controlled by factors linked to concentrations of humic substances, which support the hypothesis that these bacteria utilize photodegradation products of humic substances. Based on the revealed statistical relationships, an average relative abundance of this subspecies of 20% in global freshwater habitats was extrapolated. Our study provides important implications for the current debate on ubiquity and biogeography in microorganisms.	2010	10.1111/j.1462-2920.2009.02106.x
Berke, SK; Mahon, AR; Lima, FP; Halanych, KM; Wethey, DS; Woodin, SA	Range shifts and species diversity in marine ecosystem engineers: patterns and predictions for European sedimentary habitats	GLOBAL ECOLOGY AND BIOGEOGRAPHY	Aim Ecosystem engineering polychaetes in the genus Diopatra are undergoing range shifts in western Europe. Here we: (1) assess the species diversity underlying these shifts; (2) link biogeographic patterns to sea surface temperature patterns; and (3) predict possible ecosystem-level outcomes of Diopatras northward expansion. Location Western Europe. Methods We use molecular phylogenetic and morphological evidence to assess species diversity and biogeographic ranges. Using regression tree analyses, we assess thermal limits for two Diopatra species. We compare biogeographic patterns with historical sea surface temperature patterns to draw links between range shifts and climate change. Finally, we review published data to predict potential ecological changes as Diopatra invades new habitats. Results The native Diopatra neapolitana range has contracted 130 km to the south. A cryptogenic species, Diopatra sp. A, has extended the northern limit of the genus 350 km to the southern Brittany Peninsula. Both shifts can be explained by historical sea surface temperature anomalies. The Diopatra sp. A expansion is predicted to continue into the English Channel and the North Sea, introducing large tube structures to sheltered sedimentary habitats that currently lack such structures. Main conclusions As climate change intensifies, the sediment-stabilizing Diopatra sp. A will invade habitats dominated by the bioturbating lugworm Arenicola marina. The resulting interaction between functionally different ecosystem engineers will probably cause ecological changes in northern European coastal waters. Existing data for Diopatra species and arenicolids suggest that the diversity and biomass of macroalgae, vascular plants, infauna and epibenthic fauna may increase, while microbial activity may decrease. Net changes in productivity will depend on the relative rates of these changes.	2010	10.1111/j.1466-8238.2009.00509.x
Humbert, S; Tarnawski, S; Fromin, N; Mallet, MP; Aragno, M; Zopfi, J	Molecular detection of anammox bacteria in terrestrial ecosystems: distribution and diversity	ISME JOURNAL	Anaerobic oxidation of ammonium (anammox) is recognized as an important process in the marine nitrogen cycle yet nothing is known about the distribution, diversity and activity of anammox bacteria in the terrestrial realm. In this study, we report on the detection of anammox sequences of Candidatus Brocadia, Kuenenia, Scalindua and Jettenia in marshes, lakeshores, a contaminated porous aquifer, permafrost soil, agricultural soil and in samples associated with nitrophilic or nitrogen-fixing plants. This suggests a higher diversity of anammox bacteria in terrestrial than in marine ecosystems and could be a consequence of the larger variety of suitable niches in soils. Anammox bacteria were not ubiquitously present but were only detected in certain soil types and at particular depths, thus reflecting specific ecological requirements. As opposed to marine water column habitats where Candidatus Scalindua dominates anammox guilds, Kuenenia and Brocadia appear to be the most common representatives in terrestrial environments. The ISME Journal (2010) 4, 450-454; doi:10.1038/ismej.2009.125; published online 10 December 2009	2010	10.1038/ismej.2009.125
Wilkinson, DM	Have we underestimated the importance of humans in the biogeography of free-living terrestrial microorganisms?	JOURNAL OF BIOGEOGRAPHY	The role of humans in the global dispersal of free-living terrestrial microorganisms has received surprisingly little attention in the literature, compared with the frequent discussions of human dispersal for aquatic microbes. Here I argue that this area needs more study, using examples from the ecology of testate amoebae to illustrate the nature of the problem. The techniques of molecular ecology now make these ideas open to investigation in a way that would have been difficult in the past, and, in the case of testate amoebae, palaeoecological approaches may also be valuable.	2010	10.1111/j.1365-2699.2009.02236.x
Dumbrell, AJ; Nelson, M; Helgason, T; Dytham, C; Fitter, AH	Idiosyncrasy and overdominance in the structure of natural communities of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi: is there a role for stochastic processes?	JOURNAL OF ECOLOGY	1. Most studies of species abundance patterns focus on conspicuous macroorganisms while microbial communities remain relatively understudied. This bias is a concern given the functional importance and high diversity of microbes. 2. We determine whether a common species abundance distribution (SAD) is observed in communities of a widespread group of soil microbes, the Glomeromycota or arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi. Using molecular techniques, we intensively sampled the AM fungal community of a woodland-grassland ecotone in Yorkshire, UK. Observed species abundances were compared to theoretical models describing SADs. We also reanalysed 32 previously published data sets in a similar manner. 3. Species abundance distributions in all the AM fungal communities fitted both lognormal and broken-stick models. However, these models consistently and significantly underpredicted the abundance of the most abundant AM fungal taxon. We found that AM fungal communities are typically dominated by a single taxon; representing on average 40% of total abundance within the community. Phylogenetic analysis of the most abundant taxa across data sets showed that the dominant AM fungal type in each community was different and not a widespread generalist. 4. We conclude that a common community structure is present in AM fungal communities from different habitats. The fit to log-normal and broken-stick models suggests the influence of niche differentiation structuring these communities. However, the consistently observed overdominance indicates that local adaptation and stochastic processes may also play important roles in structuring these communities, and we propose a mechanism to explain overdominance in AM fungal communities. 5. Synthesis. This paper applies ecological models derived from studies on larger organisms to microbial communities. Results from this study suggest that a common log-normal SAD is likely to be observed across both microbial and macro taxa. However, due to the distinctive features of microbial biology, some noticeable differences, such as heavy overdominance, may lead to unique structures in microbial communities. This research not only highlights that, to a first approximation, microbial communities follow similar processes and have similar patterns to those of macroorganisms, but also the need for large-scale microbial data sets, if we are to understand the patterns and processes regulating global biodiversity.	2010	10.1111/j.1365-2745.2009.01622.x
Thornburg, CC; Zabriskie, TM; McPhail, KL	Deep-Sea Hydrothermal Vents: Potential Hot Spots for Natural Products Discovery?	JOURNAL OF NATURAL PRODUCTS	Deep-sea hydrothermal vents are the most extreme and dynamic environments on Earth. However, islands of highly dense and biologically diverse Communities exist in the immediate vicinity of hydrothermal vent flows, ill stalk contrast to the surrounding bare seafloor. These communities comprise organisms with distinct metabolisms based oil chemosynthesis and growth rates comparable to those from shallow water tropical environments, which have been rich Sources Of biologically active natural products. The geological Setting and geochemical nature Of deep-se vents that impact (lie biogeography of vent organisms, chemosynthesis, and the known biological and metabolic diversify of Eukarya, Bacteria, and Archaca, including the handful Of natural products; isolated to date from deep-sea Vent organisms, arc considered here in all assessment of deep-sea hydrothermal vents as potential hot Spots for natural products investigations. of critical importance too are (lie logistics of collecting (feel) vent organisms, opportunities for re-collection considering the stability and longevity of vent sites, and the ability to culture natural product-producing, deep Vent organisms in the laboratory. New cost-effective technologies in deep-sea research and more advanced Molecular techniques aimed at screening a more inclusive genetic assembly are poised to accelerate natural product discoveries from these microbial diversity hot spots.	2010	10.1021/np900662k
Wu, YP; Yu, XS; Wang, HZ; Ding, N; Xu, JM	Does history matter? Temperature effects on soil microbial biomass and community structure based on the phospholipid fatty acid (PLFA) analysis	JOURNAL OF SOILS AND SEDIMENTS	Temperature is an important environmental factor regulating soil microbial biomass, activity, and community. Soils from different climatic regions may have very different dominant soil microbes, which are acclimated to the local conditions like temperature. Changing soil temperature especially warming has been shown to increase the mortality rate of soil microbes. However, little is known about the responses of soil microbes coming from different climatic regions to different incubation temperatures. The objective of this study was to examine the temperature effects on microbial biomass and community of soils collected from cold, intermediate, and hot natural sites. Soils were collected from northern (Heilongjiang province), central (Jiangsu province), and southern (Guangxi province) China, these soils having very different temperature histories. The Heilongjiang soil was from the coldest region with a mean annual temperature of 1.2A degrees C, the Jiangsu soil was intermediate with a mean annual temperature of 15.7A degrees C, and Guangxi soil was from the hottest area, with a mean annual temperature of 21.2A degrees C. These three soils were incubated at 4A degrees C, 15A degrees C, 25A degrees C, and 35A degrees C for up to 56 days. Phospholipid fatty acid (PLFA) analyses were conducted on days 0, 3, 7, 14, 28, and 56 to track the dynamics of soil microbes. Soil microbial biomass indexed by total phospholipid fatty acid concentration decreased with increasing incubation temperature, with that of the Heilongjiang soil decreasing most. At the end of incubation, the biomass at 35A degrees C in the Heilongjiang, Jiangsu, and Guangxi soils had declined to 65%, 72%, and 96% of the initial biomass, respectively. The PLFA patterns shifted with increasing temperatures in all the soils, especially at 35A degrees C; the change was biggest in the Heilongjiang soil. History does have effects on soil microbes responding to environmental stress. Soil microbial biomass and PLFA profiles shifted least in the Guangxi soil with the hottest temperature history and most in the Heilongjiang soil with the coldest temperature, indicating that the distribution of free-living microorganisms is influenced by climatic factors. The majority of soil microorganisms coming from the hot regions are more adapted to high temperature (35A degrees C) compared to those from the cold area. There are some regular changes of PLFA profiles when increasing incubation temperature to 35A degrees C. However, the effect of incubation temperature on soil microbial community structure was inconclusive. As PLFA profile community structure is the phenotypic community structure. Genotype experiments are required to be done in future studies for the better understanding of soil microbes in different climate regions with concerning temperature variation. With the increasing incubation temperature, soil microbial biomass and PLFA profiles shifted most in the soil with the coldest temperature history and least in the soil with the hottest temperature. History does matter in determining soil microbial dynamics when facing thermal stress.	2010	10.1007/s11368-009-0118-5
Findlay, S	Stream microbial ecology	JOURNAL OF THE NORTH AMERICAN BENTHOLOGICAL SOCIETY	Microbes play numerous roles in stream ecosystems They carry Out key processes in stream nutrient cycles and are responsible for a large part of organic matter breakdown. Advances over the past 25 y in our understanding of which microbes are linked to specific processes have been rapid and fundamental, in part, because of improvements in methods. It is now clear that immobilization of inorganic nutrients and other transformations are Just as important as release of nutrients during organic matter decomposition Microbial biomass is recognized as a key portion of trophic transfer, but our understanding of the pathways of connection have changed Information on the actual composition of microbial communities is very recent, and it is still unclear whether there are consistent biogeographic patterns in freshwater bacterial composition One of the major areas of potential advancement is clarifying the linkage between microbial community composition and ecosystem function Determining the strength of the connection between microbial assemblage composition and the processes they catalyze remains a technical and conceptual hurdle Quantifying the strength of this linkage seems necessary to understand variability in both composition and function because feedbacks are likely in cases where the link is strong The future of the field is bright, but we. need to understand how microbes and the processes they carry out will respond to climate charge and novel stream management approaches	2010	10.1899/09-023.1
Genise, JF; Alonso-Zarza, AM; Krause, JM; Sanchez, MV; Sarzetti, L; Farina, JL; Gonzalez, MG; Cosarinsky, M; Bellosi, ES	Rhizolith balls from the Lower Cretaceous of Patagonia: Just roots or the oldest evidence of insect agriculture?	PALAEOGEOGRAPHY PALAEOCLIMATOLOGY PALAEOECOLOGY	A new type of trace fossil from the Lower Cretaceous of Patagonia that may record the oldest evidence of insect agriculture is represented by biconvex, sub-spherical, carbonate balls composed of a dense mass of rhizoliths. The best preserved balls show an external wall, a tunnel entrance, and vertical, large rhizoliths crossing from top to base, from which a mass of smaller rhizoliths arise. In some cases there is a pelletal surface texture in internal layers of the wall. Some specimens show meniscate tubes attributed to organisms different than the constructors of the chambers, probably attracted by the original organic matter. Micromorphology, analyzed by thin sections and SEM, shows strong evidence of high fungal activity associated to the original roots. Four different hypotheses are analyzed to explain the origin of the balls. The less probable ones are either that the balls were produced only by a self induced and localised overgrowth of secondary and tertiary rootlets from a group of neighbouring primary roots, or that they were crayfishes feeding chambers. Rhizolith arrangement, as well as other characters, essentially rule out both hypotheses. The hypotheses involving social insects, termites and ants, are more risky, considering the lack of support from the body fossil record, the biogeography of these extant insects, and particularly the lack of definitive evidence of discrete fungus or bacterial gardens in the balls. However, the trace fossils described herein partially resemble the nests and behaviour of the African termite Sphaerothermes sphaerothorax, particularly because of the presence of roots inside a thick lined chamber excavated around them to cultivate bacterial combs. The ant origin of these balls is at least a hypothesis to explore considering the size, shape, wall, entrance tunnel, presence of traces of associated organisms, and particularly roots. The roots and wall relate these balls to hypothesised scenarios for the origin of fungus agriculture in ants. One hypothesis suggests that primitive Attini developed fungus agriculture from the habit of feeding on fungi associated with roots (mycorrhizae) and still other proposes that adventitious fungi on nest walls were responsible for the arise of fungiculture. The balls would supply physical evidence that by the lower Cretaceous some social insects excavated chambers around uncut roots, which in turn provided optimal conditions for fungi development. These rhizolith balls possibly constitute the oldest physical evidence for the origin of fungiculture in social insects, and represent a critical contribution of ichnology to this hot topic intensively discussed on the basis of a scattered body fossil record and molecular phylogeny. (C) 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2010	10.1016/j.palaeo.2010.01.028
Kenzaka, T; Sueyoshi, A; Baba, T; Li, PF; Tani, K; Yamaguchi, N; Nasu, M	Soil Microbial Community Structure in an Asian Dust Source Region (Loess Plateau)	MICROBES AND ENVIRONMENTS	The bacterial community structure in four geographically isolated arid regions on the Loess plateau, China, a source of Asian dust, was investigated using a 16S rRNA gene. Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis and sequencing demonstrated that community diversity in the Loess plateau was low, and a common Alphaproteobacteria phylotype was identified. Phylogenetic analyses of arid soils revealed that most phylotypes had low similarity with known strains in various phyla, suggesting that these regions contain phylogenetically divergent and unknown bacteria.	2010	10.1264/jsme2.ME09164
Winkelmann, N; Jaekel, U; Meyer, C; Serrano, W; Rachel, R; Rossello-Mora, R; Harder, J	Determination of the Diversity of Rhodopirellula Isolates from European Seas by Multilocus Sequence Analysis	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	In the biogeography of microorganisms, the habitat size of an attached-living bacterium has never been investigated. We approached this theme with a multilocus sequence analysis (MLSA) study of new strains of Rhodopirellula sp., an attached-living planctomycete. The development of an MLSA for Rhodopirellula baltica enabled the characterization of the genetic diversity at the species level, beyond the resolution of the 16S rRNA gene. The alleles of the nine housekeeping genes acsA, guaA, trpE, purH, glpF, fumC, icd, glyA, and mdh indicated the presence of 13 genetically defined operational taxonomic units (OTUs) in our culture collection. The MLSA-based OTUs coincided with the taxonomic units defined by DNA-DNA hybridization experiments. BOX-PCR supported the MLSA-based differentiation of two closely related OTUs. This study established a taxon-area relationship of cultivable Rhodopirellula species. In European seas, three closely related species covered the Baltic Sea and the eastern North Sea, the North Atlantic region, and the southern North Sea to the Mediterranean. The last had regional genotypes, as revealed by BOX-PCR. This suggests a limited habitat size of attached-living Rhodopirellula species.	2010	10.1128/AEM.01525-09
Hughes, KA; Convey, P	The protection of Antarctic terrestrial ecosystems from inter- and intra-continental transfer of non-indigenous species by human activities: A review of current systems and practices	GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTAL CHANGE-HUMAN AND POLICY DIMENSIONS	Invasions by non-indigenous species are amongst the greatest threats to global biodiversity, causing substantial disruption to, and sometimes local extinction of, individual species and community assemblages which, in turn, can affect ecosystem structure and function. The terrestrial environment of Antarctica consists of many isolated islands of ice-free ground. Prolonged isolation makes Antarctic biodiversity vulnerable to human-mediated impacts, in particular (1) the introduction of nonindigenous species from outside Antarctica, and (2) the redistribution of indigenous Antarctic species between biologically distinct areas within the continent. The Protocol on Environmental Protection to the Antarctic Treaty, the primary instrument through which environmental management is addressed within the Antarctic Treaty System, says little about unintentional introduction of non-indigenous species to Antarctica, and nothing specifically about human-mediated transfer of native species from one area to another. We review the effectiveness of the Antarctic protected area system, the primary means through which area-specific environmental protection is achieved under the Antarctic Treaty System. This reveals that the measures described in most Antarctic Specially Protected Area (ASPA) and Antarctic Specially Managed Area (ASMA) Management Plans, by themselves, may not be sufficient to (1) minimise the possibility of introduction of plants, animals and microbes not native to the protected area or (2) adequately protect the many unusual assemblages of species, type localities or only known habitats of certain species found in Antarctica. We discuss issues that should be considered in the development of a more effective system, including the implementation of appropriate biosecurity measures across different spatial scales and applied to different biological groups. Crown Copyright (C) 2009 Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2010	10.1016/j.gloenvcha.2009.09.005
Schauer, R; Bienhold, C; Ramette, A; Harder, J	Bacterial diversity and biogeography in deep-sea surface sediments of the South Atlantic Ocean	ISME JOURNAL	Microbial biogeographic patterns in the deep sea depend on the ability of microorganisms to disperse. One possible limitation to microbial dispersal may be the Walvis Ridge that separates the Antarctic Lower Circumpolar Deep Water from the North Atlantic Deep Water. We examined bacterial communities in three basins of the eastern South Atlantic Ocean to determine diversity and biogeography of bacterial communities in deep-sea surface sediments. The analysis of 16S ribosomal RNA (rRNA) gene clone libraries in each basin revealed a high diversity, representing 521 phylotypes with 98% identity in 1051 sequences. Phylotypes affiliated with Gammaproteobacteria, Deltaproteobacteria and Acidobacteria were present in all three basins. The distribution of these shared phylotypes seemed to be influenced neither by the Walvis Ridge nor by different deep water masses, suggesting a high dispersal capability, as also indicated by low distance-decay relationships. However, the total bacterial diversity showed significant differences between the basins, based on 16S rRNA gene sequences as well as on terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism fingerprints. Noticeably, both geographic distance and environmental heterogeneity influenced bacterial diversity at intermediate (10-3000 km) and large scales (43000 km), indicating a complex interplay of local contemporary environmental effects and dispersal limitation. The ISME Journal (2010) 4, 159-170; doi: 10.1038/ismej.2009.106; published online 15 October 2009	2010	10.1038/ismej.2009.106
Jungblut, AD; Lovejoy, C; Vincent, WF	Global distribution of cyanobacterial ecotypes in the cold biosphere	ISME JOURNAL	Perennially cold habitats are diminishing as a result of climate change; however, little is known of the diversity or biogeography of microbes that thrive in such environments. Here we use targeted 16S rRNA gene surveys to evaluate the global affinities of cold-dwelling cyanobacteria from lake, stream and ice communities living at the northern limit of High Arctic Canada. Pigment signature analysis by HPLC confirmed the dominance of cyanobacteria in the phototrophic communities of these High Arctic microbial mats, with associated populations of chlorophytes and chromophytes. Microscopic analysis of the cyanobacteria revealed a diverse assemblage of morphospecies grouping into orders Oscillatoriales, Nostocales and Chroococcales. The 16S rRNA gene sequences from six clone libraries grouped into a total of 24 ribotypes, with a diversity in each mat ranging from five ribotypes in ice-based communities to 14 in land-based pond communities. However, no significant differences in composition were observed between these two microbial mat systems. Based on clone-library and phylogenetic analysis, several of the High Arctic ribotypes were found to be >99% similar to Antarctic and alpine sequences, including to taxa previously considered endemic to Antarctica. Among the latter, one High Arctic sequence was found 99.8% similar to Leptolyngbya antarctica sequenced from the Larsemann Hills, Antarctica. More than 68% of all identified ribotypes at each site matched only cyanobacterial sequences from perennially cold terrestrial ecosystems, and were <97.5% similar to sequences from warmer environments. These results imply the global distribution of low-temperature cyanobacterial ecotypes throughout the cold terrestrial biosphere. The ISME Journal (2010) 4, 191-202; doi: 10.1038/ismej.2009.113; published online 5 November 2009	2010	10.1038/ismej.2009.113
Kennedy, PG; Schouboe, JL; Rogers, RH; Weber, MG; Nadkarni, NM	Frankia and Alnus rubra Canopy Roots: An Assessment of Genetic Diversity, Propagule Availability, and Effects on Soil Nitrogen	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	The ecological importance of microbial symbioses in terrestrial soils is widely recognized, but their role in soils that accumulate in forest canopies is almost entirely unknown. To address this gap, this study investigated the Frankia-Alnus rubra symbiosis in canopy and forest floor roots at Olympic National Park, WA, USA. Sixteen mature A. rubra trees were surveyed and Frankia genetic diversity in canopy and forest floor nodules was assessed with sequence-based nifH analyses. A seedling bioassay experiment was conducted to determine Frankia propagule availability in canopy and forest floor soils. Total soil nitrogen from both environments was also quantified. Nodules were present in the canopies of nine of the 16 trees sampled. Across the study area, Frankia canopy and forest floor assemblages were similar, with both habitats containing the same two genotypes. The composition of forest floor and canopy genotypes on the same tree was not always identical, however, suggesting that dispersal was not a strictly local phenomenon. Frankia seedling colonization was similar in canopy soils regardless of the presence of nodules as well as in forest floor soils, indicating that dispersal was not likely to be a major limiting factor. The total soil nitrogen of canopy soils was higher than that of forest floor soils, but the presence of Frankia nodules in canopy soils did not significantly alter soil nitrogen levels. Overall, this study indicates that the Frankia-A. rubra symbiosis is similar in canopy and forest floor environments. Because canopy roots are exposed to different environmental conditions within very small spatial areas and because those areas can be easily manipulated (e.g., fertilizer or watering treatments), they present microbial ecologists with a unique arena to examine root-microbe interactions.	2010	10.1007/s00248-009-9587-8
Namsaraev, Z; Mano, MJ; Fernandez, R; Wilmotte, A	Biogeography of terrestrial cyanobacteria from Antarctic ice-free areas	ANNALS OF GLACIOLOGY	Cyanobacteria inhabit the Antarctic continent and have even been observed in the most southerly ice-free areas of Antarctica (86-87 degrees S). The highest molecular diversity of cyanobacterial communities was found in the areas located between 70 degrees S and 80 degrees S. Further south and further north from this zone, the diversity abruptly decreased. Seventy-nine per cent (33 of 42 operational taxonomic units) of Antarctic terrestrial cyanobacteria have a cosmopolitan distribution. Analysis of the sampling efforts shows that only three regions (southern Victoria Land, the Sor Rondane Mountains and Alexander Island) have been particularly well studied, while other areas did not receive enough attention. Although cyanobacteria possess a capacity for long-range transport, regional populations in Antarctic ice-free areas seem to exist. The cyanobacterial communities of the three most intensively studied regions, separated from each other by a distance of 3000-3400 km, had a low degree of similarity with each other. Further development of microbial biogeography demands a standardized approach. For this purpose, as a minimal standard, we suggest using the sequence of cyanobacterial 16S rRNA gene between Escherichia coli positions 405 and 780.	2010	
Petronio, JAG; Rivera, WL	Ultrastructure and SSU rDNA Phylogeny of Paraphysomonas vestita (Stokes) De Saedeleer Isolated from Laguna de Bay, Philippines	ACTA PROTOZOOLOGICA	Paraphysomonas vestita is a unicellular, colorless, silica-scaled chrysophyte that plays an important ecological role in freshwater microbial communities as a consumer of prokaryotic and eukaryotic prey. There is little biogeographical information for this minute protist despite its significant role in aquatic food webs. In addition, the phylogenetic relationship of P. vestita to other taxa is unclear as P. vestita may be polyphyletic or a cryptic species complex. In this study, a clonal isolate from a freshwater sample of Laguna de Bay, Philippines was subjected to morphological study by electron microscopy and its small subunit ribosomal RNA (SSU rRNA) gene was sequenced. Morphological studies showed that the isolate possesses two unequal flagella emerging from the anterior part of the cell. Negative staining revealed the structure of the scales which consist of a baseplate with slightly thickened rim. The narrowing spine arises from the center of the baseplate. These results agree with previously studied isolates of P. vestita. The 18S rRNA gene sequence of the isolate had a very high similarity (99%) to P. vestita strain PV10. Phylogenetic analysis also showed that the isolate clustered with other Paraphysomonas sequences with high bootstrap support. Phylogenetic studies confirmed that P. vestita may be polyphyletic. No studies on the ultrastructure and phylogeny of a silica-scaled chrysophyte isolated in the Philippines have been reported so far. Results from this study may contribute to further ultrastructural and phylogenetic studies on aquatic flagellates and specifically to a revision of this potentially polyphyletic species.	2010	
Everard, K; Seabloom, EW; Harpole, WS; de Mazancourt, C	Plant Water Use Affects Competition for Nitrogen: Why Drought Favors Invasive Species in California	AMERICAN NATURALIST	Classic resource competition theory typically treats resource supply rates as independent; however, nutrient supplies can be affected by plants indirectly, with important consequences for model predictions. We demonstrate this general phenomenon by using a model in which competition for nitrogen is mediated by soil moisture, with competitive outcomes including coexistence and multiple stable states as well as competitive exclusion. In the model, soil moisture regulates nitrogen availability through soil moisture dependence of microbial processes, leaching, and plant uptake. By affecting water availability, plants also indirectly affect nitrogen availability and may therefore alter the competitive outcome. Exotic annual species from the Mediterranean have displaced much of the native perennial grasses in California. Nitrogen and water have been shown to be potentially limiting in this system. We parameterize the model for a Californian grassland and show that soil moisture-mediated competition for nitrogen can explain the annual species dominance in drier areas, with coexistence expected in wetter regions. These results are concordant with larger biogeographic patterns of grassland invasion in the Pacific states of the United States, in which annual grasses have invaded most of the hot, dry grasslands in California but perennial grasses dominate the moister prairies of northern California, Oregon, and Washington.	2010	10.1086/648557
Neher, DA	Ecology of Plant and Free-Living Nematodes in Natural and Agricultural Soil	ANNUAL REVIEW OF PHYTOPATHOLOGY, VOL 48	Nematodes are aquatic organisms that depend on thin water films to live and move within existing pathways of soil pores of 25-100 mu m diameter. Soil nematodes can be a tool for testing ecological hypotheses and understanding biological mechanisms in soil because of their central role in the soil food web and linkage to ecological processes. Ecological succession is one of the most tested community ecology concepts, and a variety of nematode community indices have been proposed for purposes of environmental monitoring. In contrast, theories of biogeography, colonization, optimal foraging, and niche partitioning by nematodes are poorly understood. Ecological hypotheses related to strategies of coexistence of nematode species sharing the same resource have potential uses for more effective biological control and use of organic amendments to foster disease suppression. Essential research is needed on nematodes in natural and agricultural soils to synchronize nutrient release and availability relative to plant needs, to test ecological hypotheses, to apply optimal foraging and niche partitioning strategies for more effective biological control, to blend organic amendments to foster disease suppression, to monitor environmental and restoration status, and to develop better predictive models for land-use decisions.	2010	10.1146/annurev-phyto-073009-114439
Alonso, C; Gomez-Pereira, P; Ramette, A; Ortega, L; Fuchs, BM; Amann, R	Multilevel analysis of the bacterial diversity along the environmental gradient Rio de la Plata-South Atlantic Ocean	AQUATIC MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	The Rio de la Plata is the worlds largest estuary, draining the second largest basin of South America. In spite of its key significance at the local and global scale, this is the first attempt made so far to characterize the bacterial diversity of this system. We employed a suite of molecular methods to analyze the bacterial diversity at different phylogenetic levels, both in terms of richness and evenness, and we related these findings to physicochemical parameters. A clear environmental gradient was observed with 3 distinctive zones (riverine, frontal, and marine). In turn, the bacterial communities appeared highly diverse and strongly structured by the environment. A high number (324) of different operational taxonomic units (OTUs) were identified by automated ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis (ARISA). The ARISA results suggested that the composition of bacterioplankton communities was strongly related to physicochemical water characteristics, and that the bacterioplankton had little overlap with the bacterial assemblage of the sediments. Catalyzed reporter deposition-fluorescence in situ hybridization (CARD-FISH) indicated that Betaproteobacteria and Actinobacteria were more abundant in the riverine zone, whereas Gammaproteobacteria and Planctomycetes preferred the marine waters. The relative abundance of Bacteroidetes peaked in the frontal zone, and Alphaproteobacteria were numerically dominant throughout the estuary. The analysis of about 300 almost full-length 16S rRNA gene sequences pointed to the existence of ubiquitous phylotypes, but also suggested habitat preferences among certain groups. This first look into the bacterial community of the Rio de la Plata demonstrated marked diversity patterns, providing further insights into the ecology of globally distributed groups of aquatic bacteria.	2010	10.3354/ame01439
Wietz, M; Gram, L; Jorgensen, B; Schramm, A	Latitudinal patterns in the abundance of major marine bacterioplankton groups	AQUATIC MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	The present study describes the abundance of major marine bacterioplankton groups and 2 bacterial genera (Pseudoalteromonas and Vibrio) in surface seawater at 24 stations around the world. Catalyzed reporter deposition-fluorescence in situ hybridization showed that Alphaproteobacteria (average relative abundance 37%, average absolute abundance 3.7 x 10(5) cells ml(-1)) including SAR11 [30% / (3 x 10(5))], Gammaproteobacteria [14% / (1.2 x 10(5))] and Bacteroidetes [12% / (1.3 x 10(5))] globally dominated the bacterioplankton. The SAR86 clade [4.6% / (4.1 x 10(4))] and Actinobacteria [4.5% / (4 x 10(4))] were detected ubiquitously, whereas Archaea were scarce [0.6% / (4.2 x 10(3))]. The Roseobacter clade [averaging 3.8% / (3.5 x 10(4))], Pseudoalteromonas [2.6% / (2.1 x 10(4))] and Vibrio [1.5% / (1.3 x 10(4))] showed cosmopolitan occurrence. Principal component analysis revealed a latitudinal pattern in bacterial abundances by clustering samples according to lower and higher latitudes. This was related to significantly different relative abundances of Bacteroidetes (peaking at higher latitudes) and of unclassified Bacteria and Vibrio (both peaking at lower latitudes) between warmer and colder oceans. Relative abundances of Alphaproteobacteria (peaking at subtropical) and Gammaproteobacteria (polar stations) varied between major oceanic biomes, as did absolute abundances of Roseobacter (peaking at temperate and polar stations). For almost all groups, absolute abundances were positively correlated with nutrient concentrations in warmer oceans and negatively correlated with oxygen saturation in colder oceans. On a global scale, Roseobacter and SAR86 were correlated with chlorophyll a. Linkages of environmental parameters with relative abundances were more complex, with e. g. Bacteroidetes being associated with chlorophyll a. The finding of differing communities in warmer and colder oceans underlined the presence of biogeographical patterns among marine bacteria and the influence of environmental parameters on bacterial distribution.	2010	10.3354/ame01443
Lyons, MM; Ward, JE; Gaff, H; Hicks, RE; Drake, JM; Dobbs, FC	Theory of island biogeography on a microscopic scale: organic aggregates as islands for aquatic pathogens	AQUATIC MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Four predictions of the MacArthur-Wilson theory of island biogeography were evaluated to assess the degree to which detrital-based organic aggregates (e.g. marine snow, organic detritus, and bioflocs) may provide a favorable microhabitat (i.e. an island) for bacteria in general, and specifically aquatic pathogens. We demonstrate the theorys relevance for microbial communities in aquatic environments by describing the community metabolic response and functional diversity of individual organic aggregates while documenting the persistence of potential pathogens and fecal indicator bacteria. Our results support the 4 predictions, including a significant species-area relationship, consistency of species richness at equilibrium, non-zero level of species turnover at equilibrium, and variance to mean ratios of less than 0.5 at equilibrium. The aggregate-associated microbial communities demonstrated significantly higher rates of metabolic response and functional diversity, and contained higher concentrations of culturable vibrios and fecal indicator bacteria compared to aggregate-free water, supporting the idea that organic aggregates are sites of favorable habitat surrounded by a less favorable matrix. These results substantiate that organic aggregates may be represented as microscopic islands. Using island biogeography theory to understand the microbial ecology of aquatic pathogens associated with organic aggregates is important with respect to environmental sampling of recreational waters and mathematical modeling of the transmission of waterborne diseases from aquatic reservoirs to humans.	2010	10.3354/ame01417
Barberan, A; Casamayor, EO	Global phylogenetic community structure and beta-diversity patterns in surface bacterioplankton metacommunities	AQUATIC MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	We aimed to identify phylogenetic community patterns in abundant planktonic bacteria (Alpha-, Beta-, and Gammaproteobacteria, Actinobacteria, Cyanobacteria, and Bacteroidetes) from a worldwide range of surface waters (lakes and seas-34 sites and ca. 4500 16S rRNA gene sequences). At each site we assessed the number of observed bacterial groups and the genetic relatedness of the most abundant groups through a community phylogenetic meta-analysis approach in order to (1) explore which potential ecological processes were consistent with the observed phylogenetic patterns in community assembly and (2) disentangle the effects of space and environment in beta-diversity patterns for the different bacterial groups. Inland waters had significantly more bacterial groups and were more diverse than marine waters. Marine habitats showed a higher percentage of clustered sites than lakes, and bacterial communities were more closely related than expected by chance. Phylogenetic beta-diversity analyses revealed different patterns to both salt composition (marine vs. inland salt lakes) and salt concentration for the dominant bacteria. We observed that while beta-diversity patterns for Bacteroidetes were mostly shaped by salinity concentration, patterns in Alphaproteobacteria and Gammaproteobacteria were controlled by salt composition. Actinobacteria, Betaproteobacteria and Sphingobacteria were largely absent from marine habitats and from saline continental sites. In general and despite the lack of contextual metadata, environmental similarity was more relevant than spatial distribution for bacterial beta-diversity patterns. However, we detected a geographic signal for some inland waters groups (i.e. Actinobacteria, Beta-, and Gammaproteobacteria). Overall, the analyses indicated differences among phylogenetic groups and reflected patterns upon which further exploration of community assembly theory could be based.	2010	10.3354/ame01389
Fu, YY; MacLeod, DM; Rivkin, RB; Chen, F; Buchan, A; Lang, AS	High diversity of Rhodobacterales in the subarctic North Atlantic Ocean and gene transfer agent protein expression in isolated strains	AQUATIC MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Genes encoding gene transfer agent (GTA) particles are well conserved in bacteria of the order Rhodobacterales. Members of this order are abundant in diverse marine environments, frequently accounting for as much as 25% of the total bacterial community. Conservation of the genes encoding GTAs allows their use as diagnostic markers of Rhodobacterales in biogeographical studies. The first survey of the diversity of Rhodobacterales based on the GTA major capsid gene was conducted in a warm temperate estuarine ecosystem, the Chesapeake Bay, but the biogeography of Rhodobacterales has not been explored extensively. This study investigates Rhodobacterales diversity in the cold subarctic water near Newfoundland, Canada. Our results suggest that the subarctic region of the North Atlantic contains diverse Rhodobacterales communities in both winter and summer, and that the diversity of the Rhodobacterales community in the summer Newfoundland coastal water is higher than that found in the Chesapeake Bay, in either the summer or winter. Approximately one-third of GTA sequences retrieved from the subarctic waters were most closely related to those from bacteria isolated from sea ice or cold regions. Distinguishable diversity patterns were found between the temperate and subarctic waters, providing further support for niche adaptation of specific Rhodobacterales members to unique environments. We also demonstrate that a number of Rhodobacterales strains, from both the subarctic and temperate locations, express the GTA major capsid protein. This provides robust evidence that the widespread conservation of GTA genes in the Rhodobacterales may result in the production of functionally similar and active GTA systems in these bacteria in different environments.	2010	10.3354/ame01398
An, LZ; Chen, Y; Xiang, SR; Shang, TC; Tian, LD	Differences in community composition of bacteria in four glaciers in western China	BIOGEOSCIENCES	Microbial community patterns vary in glaciers worldwide, presenting unique responses to global climatic and environmental changes. Four bacterial clone libraries were established by 16S rRNA gene amplification from four ice layers along the 42-m-long ice core MuztB drilled from the Muztag Ata Glacier. A total of 151 bacterial sequences obtained from the ice core MuztB were phylogenetically compared with the 71 previously reported sequences from three ice cores extracted from ice caps Malan, Dunde, and Puruogangri. Six phylogenetic clusters Flavisolibacter, Flexibacter (Bacteroidetes), Acinetobacter, Enterobacter (Gammaproteobacteria), Planococcus/Anoxybacillus (Firmicutes), and Propionibacter/Luteococcus (Actinobacteria) frequently occurred along the Muztag Ata Glacier profile, and their proportion varied by seasons. Sequence analysis showed that most of the sequences from the ice core clustered with those from cold environments, and the sequence clusters from the same glacier more closely grouped together than those from the geographically isolated glaciers. Moreover, bacterial communities from the same location or similarly aged ice formed a cluster, and were clearly separate from those from other geographically isolated glaciers. In summary, the findings provide preliminary evidence of zonal distribution of microbial community, and suggest biogeography of microorganisms in glacier ice.	2010	10.5194/bg-7-1937-2010
Ramirez-Llodra, E; Brandt, A; Danovaro, R; De Mol, B; Escobar, E; German, CR; Levin, LA; Arbizu, PM; Menot, L; Buhl-Mortensen, P; Narayanaswamy, BE; Smith, CR; Tittensor, DP; Tyler, PA; Vanreusel, A; Vecchione, M	Deep, diverse and definitely different: unique attributes of the worlds largest ecosystem	BIOGEOSCIENCES	The deep sea, the largest biome on Earth, has a series of characteristics that make this environment both distinct from other marine and land ecosystems and unique for the entire planet. This review describes these patterns and processes, from geological settings to biological processes, biodiversity and biogeographical patterns. It concludes with a brief discussion of current threats from anthropogenic activities to deep-sea habitats and their fauna. Investigations of deep-sea habitats and their fauna began in the late 19th century. In the intervening years, technological developments and stimulating discoveries have promoted deep-sea research and changed our way of understanding life on the planet. Nevertheless, the deep sea is still mostly unknown and current discovery rates of both habitats and species remain high. The geological, physical and geochemical settings of the deep-sea floor and the water column form a series of different habitats with unique characteristics that support specific faunal communities. Since 1840, 28 new habitats/ecosystems have been discovered from the shelf break to the deep trenches and discoveries of new habitats are still happening in the early 21st century. However, for most of these habitats the global area covered is unknown or has been only very roughly estimated; an even smaller - indeed, minimal - proportion has actually been sampled and investigated. We currently perceive most of the deep-sea ecosystems as heterotrophic, depending ultimately on the flux on organic matter produced in the overlying surface ocean through photosynthesis. The resulting strong food limitation thus shapes deep-sea biota and communities, with exceptions only in reducing ecosystems such as inter alia hydrothermal vents or cold seeps. Here, chemoautolithotrophic bacteria play the role of primary producers fuelled by chemical energy sources rather than sunlight. Other ecosystems, such as seamounts, canyons or cold-water corals have an increased productivity through specific physical processes, such as topographic modification of currents and enhanced transport of particles and detrital matter. Because of its unique abiotic attributes, the deep sea hosts a specialized fauna. Although there are no phyla unique to deep waters, at lower taxonomic levels the composition of the fauna is distinct from that found in the upper ocean. Amongst other characteristic patterns, deep-sea species may exhibit either gigantism or dwarfism, related to the decrease in food availability with depth. Food limitation on the seafloor and water column is also reflected in the trophic structure of heterotrophic deep-sea communities, which are adapted to low energy availability. In most of these heterotrophic habitats, the dominant megafauna is composed of detritivores, while filter feeders are abundant in habitats with hard substrata (e. g. mid-ocean ridges, seamounts, canyon walls and coral reefs). Chemoautotrophy through symbiotic relationships is dominant in reducing habitats. Deep-sea biodiversity is among of the highest on the planet, mainly composed of macro and meiofauna, with high evenness. This is true for most of the continental margins and abyssal plains with hot spots of diversity such as seamounts or cold-water corals. However, in some ecosystems with particularly extreme physicochemical processes (e.g. hydrothermal vents), biodiversity is low but abundance and biomass are high and the communities are dominated by a few species. Two large-scale diversity patterns have been discussed for deep-sea benthic communities. First, a unimodal relationship between diversity and depth is observed, with a peak at intermediate depths (2000-3000 m), although this is not universal and particular abiotic processes can modify the trend. Secondly, a poleward trend of decreasing diversity has been discussed, but this remains controversial and studies with larger and more robust data sets are needed. Because of the paucity in our knowledge of habitat coverage and species composition, biogeographic studies are mostly based on regional data or on specific taxonomic groups. Recently, global biogeographic provinces for the pelagic and benthic deep ocean have been described, using environmental and, where data were available, taxonomic information. This classification described 30 pelagic provinces and 38 benthic provinces divided into 4 depth ranges, as well as 10 hydrothermal vent provinces. One of the major issues faced by deep-sea biodiversity and biogeographical studies is related to the high number of species new to science that are collected regularly, together with the slow description rates for these new species. Taxonomic coordination at the global scale is particularly difficult, but is essential if we are to analyse large diversity and biogeographic trends. Because of their remoteness, anthropogenic impacts on deep-sea ecosystems have not been addressed very thoroughly until recently. The depletion of biological and mineral resources on land and in shallow waters, coupled with technological developments, are promoting the increased interest in services provided by deep-water resources. Although often largely unknown, evidence for the effects of human activities in deep-water ecosystems - such as deep-sea mining, hydrocarbon exploration and exploitation, fishing, dumping and littering - is already accumulating. Because of our limited knowledge of deep-sea biodiversity and ecosystem functioning and because of the specific life-history adaptations of many deep-sea species (e. g. slow growth and delayed maturity), it is essential that the scientific community works closely with industry, conservation organisations and policy makers to develop robust and efficient conservation and management options.	2010	10.5194/bg-7-2851-2010
Alvaro, JJ; Monceret, E; Monceret, S; Verraes, G; Vizcaino, D	Stratigraphic record and palaeogeographic context of the Cambrian Epoch 2 subtropical carbonate platforms and their basinal counterparts in SW Europe, West Gondwana	BULLETIN OF GEOSCIENCES	The Ibero-Armorican Arc is the main Variscan macrostructure in SW Europe. Its branches preserve the Cambrian record of a continuous margin of West Gondwana, from its southwestern edge (West Asturian-Leonese and Cantabrian zones and their lateral continuity into the Iberian Chains) to its northeastern extension (basement of the Cenozoic Aquitaine basin, Montagne Noire, southern Cevennes, and Sardinia). These Variscan relics allow the reconstruction of a Cambrian Epoch 2 carbonate belt that developed intermittently along West Gondwana. Facies associations show that the main centres of carbonate productivity were nucleated in ooidal and sand shoals, together with microbial and microbial-archaeocyathan reefs, developed in high energy regimes under subtropical arid conditions. Outside the inner carbonate belt, carbonate production was episodic and related to deposition of kerogenous black shales and phosphogenesis in the Central Iberian Zone and northern parts of Montagne Noire and Cevennes. Development of carbonate platforms along the margin was diachronous and discontinuous, due to poleward drifting and tectonically induced drowning and flooding. Biogeographic connection with similar subtropical carbonate platforms from East Gondwana (mainly South China) favoured the migration of equatorial and subtropical trilobite genera, such as Dolerolenus, Eoredlichia, Metaredlichia, Protolenus, Redlichia, and Sardaspis.	2010	10.3140/bull.geosci.1179
Sabacka, M	Spatial Distribution of Microorganisms in the Polar Regions	ENCOUNTERING THE CHANGING BARENTS: RESEARCH CHALLENGES AND OPPORTUNITIES		2010	
Yergeau, E; Labour, K; Hamel, C; Vujanovic, V; Nakano-Hylander, A; Jeannotte, R; St-Arnaud, M	Patterns of Fusarium community structure and abundance in relation to spatial, abiotic and biotic factors in soil	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Members of the Fusarium genus are important components of many plant-soil systems worldwide and are responsible for many crop diseases. Knowledge of the relative influence of biotic and abiotic factors on this genus is therefore of broad economic and ecological importance. In order to address this issue, we examined Fusarium communities in soils nearby apparently healthy and symptomatic asparagus plants in 50 fields scattered in four agricultural regions of Quebec, Canada. Fusarium community structure and abundance were assessed using genus-specific PCR-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis and CFU counts, respectively. Multivariate statistical analyses were used to detect community patterns related to spatial, abiotic and biotic factors. Results suggested that Fusarium community structure (i.e. the presence and absence of the different Fusarium sequence variants in the samples) in soil is mainly related to biotic factors (arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi and bacterial community structure), whereas Fusarium abundance is more closely related to abiotic factors (mainly clay, organic matter, NH(4), Na and Cu). Some degree of influence of spatial patterns was also observed on both Fusarium community structure and abundance with, for instance, a large regional variation in Fusarium community structure. However, Fusarium community structure was not directly related to the disease status of nearby asparagus plants.	2010	10.1111/j.1574-6941.2009.00777.x
Prahl, FG; Rontani, JF; Zabeti, N; Walinsky, SE; Sparrow, MA	Systematic pattern in U-37(K ) - Temperature residuals for surface sediments from high latitude and other oceanographic settings	GEOCHIMICA ET COSMOCHIMICA ACTA	Twenty-seven multicores, collected in late summer 2004 from coastal and inland marine sites throughout SE Alaska (similar to 55 to 61 degrees N), were analyzed for C-37 to C-19 alkenones of specific haptophyte origin. This biomarker signal, detected in core-top sediments from 20 of the sites, was quantitatively most significant in organic carbon and biogenic silica-rich sediments deposited south of Icy Strait (similar to 58 degrees N), along the outer coastline of Baranof and Prince of Wales islands. U-37(K)-based water temperature estimates derived using a standard calibration equation (U-37(K) = 0.034T + 0.039) were uniform throughout the study area, averaging 11.9 +/- 1.0 degrees C, a value similar to 4 degrees C warmer than mean annual SST (maSST) for the region. Epoxides, indicative of selective alkenone degradation by an aerobic bacterial process, were also detected and quantified in all sediments containing alkenones. Semi-quantitative accounting of the impact that compound-selective degradation can impose on alkenone unsaturation patterns indicates the standard U-37(K)-based temperature estimates could be too warm by a variable amount (0.7-2.4 degrees C) depending upon the site, with an overall average of similar to 1.4 degrees C. Even after adjustment for this potential diagenetic warming effect, estimates still best match summer and not maSST in this subarctic region. Re-examination of alkenone signatures preserved in sediment from the North Atlantic and on the continental margin located south of similar to 45 degrees S along the Chilean coast indicates the apparent summer signal in U-37(K)-derived SST estimates is not unique to SE Alaskan sediments but rather a common finding when alkenone thermometry is applied to sediments from high latitude environments. Examination of model residuals from analysis of surface sediment samples collected at lower latitude settings along the west coast of the Americas-also identifies other sites where significant biogeographic patterns seem apparent and viable oceanographic explanations can be offered. (C) 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2010	10.1016/j.gca.2009.09.027
Drenovsky, RE; Steenwerth, KL; Jackson, LE; Scow, KM	Land use and climatic factors structure regional patterns in soil microbial communities	GLOBAL ECOLOGY AND BIOGEOGRAPHY	Aim Although patterns are emerging for macroorganisms, we have limited understanding of the factors determining soil microbial community composition and productivity at large spatial extents. The overall objective of this study was to discern the drivers of microbial community composition at the extent of biogeographical provinces and regions. We hypothesized that factors associated with land use and climate would drive soil microbial community composition and biomass. Location Great Basin Province, Desert Province and California Floristic Province, California, USA. Methods Using phospholipid fatty acid analysis, we compared microbial communities across eight land-use types sampled throughout the State of California, USA (n = 1117). Results The main factor driving composition and microbial biomass was land-use type, especially as related to water availability and disturbance. Dry soils were more enriched in Gram-negative bacteria and fungi, and wetter soils were more enriched in Gram-positive, anaerobic and sulphate-reducing bacteria. Microbial biomass was lowest in ecosystems with the wettest and driest soils. Disturbed soils had less fungal and more Gram-positive bacterial biomass than wildland soils. However, some factors known to influence microbial communities, such as soil pH and specific plant taxa, were not important here. Main conclusions Distinct microbial communities were associated with land-use types and disturbance at the regional extent. Overall, soil water availability was an important determinant of soil microbial community composition. However, because of the inclusion of managed and irrigated agricultural ecosystems, the effect of precipitation was not significant. Effects of environmental and management factors, such as flooding, tillage and irrigation, suggest that agricultural management can have larger effects on soil microbial communities than elevation and precipitation gradients.	2010	10.1111/j.1466-8238.2009.00486.x
Umani, SF; Malisana, E; Focaracci, F; Magagnini, M; Corinaldesi, C; Danovaro, R	Disentangling the effect of viruses and nanoflagellates on prokaryotes in bathypelagic waters of the Mediterranean Sea	MARINE ECOLOGY PROGRESS SERIES	Bathypelagic ecosystems depend on prokaryotic heterotrophic biomass fuelled by vertical particulate organic matter (POM) fluxes, but very little information is available on the interactions among viruses, prokaryotes and nanoflagellates in deep waters. We simultaneously investigated the relative importance of the viral and heterotrophic nanoflagellate (HNF) grazing-induced prokaryotic mortality in bathypelagic waters by means of dilution experiments performed on samples collected at 1500 m depth from the Atlantic Ocean to the Eastern Mediterranean Sea. Prokaryotic abundance (range: 1.4 to 8.9 x 10(4) cells ml(-1)), although different from one station to another, was on average not significantly different among biogeographic regions. The potential predators of prokaryotes (viruses, HNF and microzooplankton) followed a similar spatial pattern. Viruses were responsible for an important fraction of prokaryotic mortality (on average 13.4% d(-1)). Dilution experiments carried out to estimate the potential predation of HNF suggested a high effect on prokaryotic abundance. However, since the latter experiments also include the effect of viruses on prokaryotes, when this factor was disentangled from the overall mortality, the potential rates of HNF predation on prokaryotes (on average 49.5%) were ca. 4 times higher than the effect due to viral infections. Conversely to patterns of distribution, the relative importance of virus-mediated mortality vs. HNF predation changed significantly among different regions. Results should be treated with caution due to the intrinsic difficulty in reproducing experimentally natural deep-sea conditions, but they permit disentangling of the relative effect of viruses and HNF on prokaryotes and compare the potential predatory control in different biogeographic regions.	2010	10.3354/meps08803
Reif, WE	DARWINS Origin as a modern theory	NEUES JAHRBUCH FUR GEOLOGIE UND PALAONTOLOGIE-ABHANDLUNGEN	The structure of the modern theory of evolution is controversial in biology and in the philosophy of science. Classical texts often carry common-sensical characteristics, but these are rarely analyzed. Here, I give a full interpretation of the first edition of CHARLES DARwiNs On the Origin of Species (1859). I propose that today, the term evolution is used with three different meanings which are not clearly separated in the technical literature and in text-books: Evolution I is the irreversible process of the historical change of the biosphere from the first bacteria to the present (= phylogeny). It is a simple truth that this process takes place. However, details of the process (velocity, gradualness) have been controversial up to the present day. Evolution II encompasses the causal factors that control evolution (mutation, recombination, natural selection etc.). Evolution III is the historical narrative of the history of the biosphere. All processes in Evolution III are explained by previous events, contingencies, etc. DARWINS goal was to demonstrate the truth of evolution 1 and its special features and to find factors (evolution II) that control this process (mainly: natural selection.) DARWIN regarded the theory of descent and the theory of natural selection as a single theory. History has shown that these are two different theories. He worked with different methodologies, mainly analogy and hermeneutics. (I) Analogy is used in two different important contexts: (a) variability and all different phenomena of inheritance in domestic breeding are seen as analogies of variability and inheritance in the wild, (b) natural selection in domestication is seen analogy to natural selection. DARWIN gives no justification for these analogies. They are simply a-priories. (2) Hermeneutic circles (reciprocal illumination) are common in the book such as: (a) I learn from geological theories of the fossil record for the understanding of the distribution of fossils and vice versa, (b) I learn for theories of descent and natural selection from the small scale distribution of species and ecology and vice versa, and (c) I learn for biogeography from physical mechanisms of dispersal and vice versa. DARwiN worked for twenty years to develop his theory. It is hence not surprising that he omitted aspects of which he was only unconsciously aware or which were selfevident for him. I try to clarify the contexts where DARWIN made indications between the lines. For instance, he had a highly complex organism-concept, which characterised the organism in the ecological game from conception to death and acquiring new heritable variability. The title of the book On the Origin of Species by Means of Natural Selection or the Preservation of Favoured Races in the Struggle for Life is DARWINS research programme, namely the behaviour of species and populations in the ecological game; the origin of new species from older ones by splitting and transformation; the acquisition of new characters in species populations etc. Struggle for existence and natural selection are ecological processes of high importance. Nevertheless it is hardly stated in the literature that DARWIN regarded evolution from the point of view of an ecologist. It is commonly stated that he had neither an understanding of genetics, nor of the process of speciation. I show that both criticisms are wrong, and that Darwin could hardly have solved his task if he had not collected all possible data from breeders and if he had not developed a very complex model of speciation from his non-arbitrary, non-ragmatic species concept.	2010	10.1127/0077-7749/2010/0045
Tedersoo, L; Nara, K	General latitudinal gradient of biodiversity is reversed in ectomycorrhizal fungi	NEW PHYTOLOGIST		2010	10.1111/j.1469-8137.2009.03134.x
Freilich, S; Kreimer, A; Meilijson, I; Gophna, U; Sharan, R; Ruppin, E	The large-scale organization of the bacterial network of ecological co-occurrence interactions	NUCLEIC ACIDS RESEARCH	In their natural environments, microorganisms form complex systems of interactions. Understating the structure and organization of bacterial communities is likely to have broad medical and ecological consequences, yet a comprehensive description of the network of environmental interactions is currently lacking. Here, we mine co-occurrences in the scientific literature to construct such a network and demonstrate an expected pattern of association between the species lifestyle and the recorded number of co-occurring partners. We further focus on the well-annotated gut community and show that most co-occurrence interactions of typical gut bacteria occur within this community. The network is then clustered into species-groups that significantly correspond with natural occurring communities. The relationships between resource competition, metabolic yield and growth rate within the clusters correspond with the r/K selection theory. Overall, these results support the constructed clusters as a first approximation of a bacterial ecosystem model. This comprehensive collection of predicted communities forms a new data resource for further systematic characterization of the ecological design principals shaping communities. Here, we demonstrate its utility for predicting cooperation and inhibition within communities.	2010	10.1093/nar/gkq118
Bright, M; Lallier, FH	THE BIOLOGY OF VESTIMENTIFERAN TUBEWORMS	OCEANOGRAPHY AND MARINE BIOLOGY: AN ANNUAL REVIEW, VOL 48	Vestimentiferan tubeworms, once erected at a phylum level, are now known to comprise a part of the specialised deep-sea polychaete family Siboglinidae. Their widespread and abundant occurrence at hydrothermal vents and hydrocarbon seeps has fostered numerous studies of their evolution and biogeography, ecology and physiology. Harbouring autotrophic, sulphide-oxidising, intracellular bacterial symbionts, they form large populations of primary producers with contrasting characteristics, from fast-growing, short-living species at vents, to slow-growing, long-living species at seeps. These different life strategies and the ways they modify the biogeochemistry of their respective environments have consequences on the macro- and meiofaunal assemblages that develop within vestimentiferan bushes. New findings indicate that postlarval recruits get infected through the skin by free-living bacteria for which growth is rapidly and specifically limited by the host to mesoderm cells around the gut that further transform into the characteristic trophosome. The resulting internal location of symbionts prompts specific adaptations of the hosts to fulfil their metabolic requirements, including unusual sulphide and carbon dioxide assimilation and transport mechanisms. Symbiont genome sequencing has improved our knowledge of potential bacterial metabolism and should rapidly open the way for new research approaches to resolve the intricate physiological relationships between a eukaryotic host and its chemoautotrophic bacterial symbionts.	2010	
Wakelin, SA; Chu, GX; Lardner, R; Liang, YC; McLaughlin, M	A single application of Cu to field soil has long-term effects on bacterial community structure, diversity, and soil processes	PEDOBIOLOGIA	Long-term diversity-disturbance responses of soil bacterial communities to copper were determined from field-soils (Spalding; South Australia) exposed to Cu in doses ranging from 0 through to 4012 mg Cu kg(-1) soil. Nearly 6 years after application of Cu, the structure of the total bacterial community showed change over the Cu gradient (PCR-DGGE profiling). 16S rRNA clone libraries, generated from unexposed and exposed (1003 mg Cu added kg(-1) soil) treatments, had significantly different taxa composition, In particular, Acidobacteria were abundant in unexposed soil but were nearly absent from the Cu-exposed sample (P<0.05), which was dominated by Firmicute bacteria (P<0.05). Analysis of community profiles of Acidobacteria, Bacillus, Pseudomonas and Sphingomonas showed significant changes in structural composition with increasing soil Cu. The diversity (Simpsons index) of the Acidobacteria community was more sensitive to increasing concentrations of CaCl-extractable soil Cu (Cu(Ext)) than other groups, with decline in diversity occurring at 0.13 Cu(Ext) mg kg(-1) soil. In contrast, diversity in the Bacillus community increased until 10.4 Cu(Ext) mg kg(-1) soil, showing that this group was 2 orders of magnitude more resistant to Cu than Acidobacteria. Sphingomonas was the most resistant to Cu: however, this group along with Pseudomonas represented only a small percentage of total soil bacteria. Changes in bacterial community structure, but not diversity, were concomitant with a decrease in catabolic function (BioLog). Reduction in function followed a dose-response pattern with Cu(Ext) levels (R(2)=0.86). The EC(50) for functional loss was 0.21 Cu(Ext) mg kg(-1) soil, which coincided with loss of Acidobacteria diversity. The microbial responses were confirmed as being due to Cu and not shifts in soil pH (from use of CuSO(4)) as parallel Zn-based field plots (ZnSO(4)) were dissimilar. Changes in the diversity of most bacterial groups with soil Cu followed a unimodal response - i.e. diversity initially increased with Cu addition until a critical value was reached, whereupon it sharply decreased. These responses are indicative of the intermediate-disturbance-hypothesis, a macroecological theory that has not been widely tested in environmental microbial ecosystems. Crown Copyright (C) 2009 Published by Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.	2010	10.1016/j.pedobi.2009.09.002
Slowinska, S; Slowinski, M; Lamentowicz, M	Relationships between Local Climate and Hydrology in Sphagnum Mire: Implications for Palaeohydrological Studies and Ecosystem Management	POLISH JOURNAL OF ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES	We investigated: a) the hydrology of a small Sphagnum mire located in a transitional climate in Eastern Europe, and b) the relationships between the local climate and hydrology of the mire. We hypothesized that temperature is the most important factor determining water table changes in this type of peatland in an exceptional biogeographic setting. Research on the Linje mire revealed that the groundwater table was predominantly influenced by air temperature, which determines the rate of evapotranspiration, particularly in summer. Another important physical factor that significantly influences the variation in groundwater table of the mire is the permeability of the surface deposits. Moreover, the vegetation (especially Sphagnum) also has a modifying influence. Our study is the first of this kind in the young glacial area of Poland as well as in Eastern Europe. There is a need to improve precision of the study by installing automatic data loggers, as well as to intensify monitoring of the mire and its surroundings in order to obtain a better picture of the relationships between the mire and forest management in its vicinity. Furthermore, in the future we plan to extend the monitoring to hydrochemistry and microbial indicators (e.g. testate-amoebae and bacteria) to use the ecosystem approach in management of this valuable site.	2010	
Galand, PE; Casamayor, EO; Kirchman, DL; Lovejoy, C	Ecology of the rare microbial biosphere of the Arctic Ocean	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	Understanding the role of microbes in the oceans has focused on taxa that occur in high abundance; yet most of the marine microbial diversity is largely determined by a long tail of low-abundance taxa. This rare biosphere may have a cosmopolitan distribution because of high dispersal and low loss rates, and possibly represents a source of phylotypes that become abundant when environmental conditions change. However, the true ecological role of rare marine microorganisms is still not known. Here, we use pyrosequencing to describe the structure and composition of the rare biosphere and to test whether it represents cosmopolitan taxa or whether, similar to abundant phylotypes, the rare community has a biogeography. Our examination of 740,353 16S rRNA gene sequences from 32 bacterial and archaeal communities from various locations of the Arctic Ocean showed that rare phylotypes did not have a cosmopolitan distribution but, rather, followed patterns similar to those of the most abundant members of the community and of the entire community. The abundance distributions of rare and abundant phylotypes were different, following a log-series and log-normal model, respectively, and the taxonomic composition of the rare biosphere was similar to the composition of the abundant phylotypes. We conclude that the rare biosphere has a biogeography and that its tremendous diversity is most likely subjected to ecological processes such as selection, speciation, and extinction.	2009	10.1073/pnas.0908284106
Costello, EK; Lauber, CL; Hamady, M; Fierer, N; Gordon, JI; Knight, R	Bacterial Community Variation in Human Body Habitats Across Space and Time	SCIENCE	Elucidating the biogeography of bacterial communities on the human body is critical for establishing healthy baselines from which to detect differences associated with diseases. To obtain an integrated view of the spatial and temporal distribution of the human microbiota, we surveyed bacteria from up to 27 sites in seven to nine healthy adults on four occasions. We found that community composition was determined primarily by body habitat. Within habitats, interpersonal variability was high, whereas individuals exhibited minimal temporal variability. Several skin locations harbored more diverse communities than the gut and mouth, and skin locations differed in their community assembly patterns. These results indicate that our microbiota, although personalized, varies systematically across body habitats and time; such trends may ultimately reveal how microbiome changes cause or prevent disease.	2009	10.1126/science.1177486
Lin, SS; Wang, Y; Lin, JF; Wang, XR; Gong, HL	Dominant bacteria correlated with elimination of sludge in an innovative reactor	PROGRESS IN NATURAL SCIENCE	This study was conducted to identify bacteria responsible for the elimination of sludge in an innovative gravel contact oxidation reactor (GCOR) and a conventional activated sludge reactor (ASR). Fluorescent in situ hybridization revealed that alpha-, beta-, gamma- and epsilon-Proteobacteria and Bacteroidetes were present in both reactors. In the GCOR, gamma-Proteobacteria accounted for 13% of the biofilm biomass on the carrier, while alpha-, epsilon- and beta-Proteobacteria accounted for 12%. However, the predominant bacteria in the pores of the carrier in the GCOR were Bacteroidetes (18%), epsilon-Proteobacteria (13%), beta- and alpha-Proteobacteria (10%) and gamma-Proteobacteria (9%). Conversely, beta-Proteobacteria (18%), Bacteroidetes (13%), alpha- and gamma-Proteobacteria (12%) and epsilon-Proteobacteria (5%) dominated the sediment community of the ASR. (C) 2009 National Natural Science Foundation of China and Chinese Academy of Sciences. Published by Elsevier Limited and Science in China Press. All rights reserved.	2009	10.1016/j.pnsc.2009.07.008
Yutin, N; Suzuki, MT; Rosenberg, M; Rotem, D; Madigan, MT; Suling, J; Imhoff, JF; Beja, O	BchY-Based Degenerate Primers Target All Types of Anoxygenic Photosynthetic Bacteria in a Single PCR	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	To detect anoxygenic bacteria containing either type 1 or type 2 photosynthetic reaction centers in a single PCR, we designed a degenerate primer set based on the bchY gene. The new primers were validated in silico using the GenBank nucleotide database as well as by PCR on pure strains and environmental DNA.	2009	10.1128/AEM.01014-09
Nemcova, Y; Pichrtova, M	The rare species Synura lapponica (Synurophyceae) new to the Czech Republic, local vs. global diversity in colonial synurophytes	BIOLOGIA	Synura lapponica Skuja, a freshwater colonial flagellate (Synurophyceae, Stramenopila), has been reported for the first time in the Czech Republic. This study evaluates the ecological requirements of the species, and includes a survey of the literature. Although S. lapponica has been reported thus far only in the Northern Hemisphere, the probability of its bipolar distribution is relatively high (22%). Distribution is probably ecologically determined, water temperature (correlated with latitude or seasonal fluctuations), and lower pH seem to be the primary environmental variables. A local vs. global ratio reflects, to a certain extent, the degree of sampling effort expended in the studied area, but a considerable increase in the number of revealed taxa was apparent when the area was expanded.	2009	10.2478/s11756-009-0181-9
Guernier, V; Guegan, JF	May Rapoports Rule Apply to Human Associated Pathogens?	ECOHEALTH	Many debates surround the generalization of Rapoports rule (i.e., the presence of a positive correlation between range size and latitude); however, little attention has been devoted to this spatial pattern (1) worldwide and (2) for pathogenic microorganisms. In this study, we analyzed this relationship for 290 human pathogenic species dispersed throughout the world to test whether pathogenic organisms with different ecological niches and strategies will show this trend. The midpoint method was used to calculate the correlation between the geographical range size and the latitude applied to different subsets of pathogens, including taxonomic subdivisions (bacteria, viruses, helminths, protozoans, and fungi) and categories based on transmission mode and host specificity. It is assumed that Rapoports spatial pattern may exist for human infectious diseases, whatever hemisphere is considered, for 5 to 7 of 8 of the selected groups, depending on the pathogen species included. This is the first study performed to investigate Rapoports pattern at a global scale for various pathogenic organisms. We also discuss how three well-known spatial patterns of diversity, i.e., latitudinal gradient, nested species pattern, and Rapoports rule, may vary together to produce the actual large-scale geographical distribution of human pathogenic species observed on Earth. These findings have important messages for understanding the distribution and the diffusion of human pathogenic species; however, further studies are needed to investigate the exact underlying mechanisms responsible for those patterns.	2009	10.1007/s10393-010-0290-5
Stout, LM; Blake, RE; Greenwood, JP; Martini, AM; Rose, EC	Microbial diversity of boron-rich volcanic hot springs of St. Lucia, Lesser Antilles	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	The volcanic Sulphur Springs, St. Lucia, present an extreme environment due to high temperatures, low pH values, and high concentrations of sulfate and boron. St. Lucia offers some unique geochemical characteristics that may shape the microbial communities within the Sulphur Springs area. We chose six pools representing a range of geochemical characteristics for detailed microbial community analyses. Chemical concentrations varied greatly between sites. Microbial diversity was analyzed using 16S rRNA gene clone library analyses. With the exception of one pool with relatively low concentrations of dissolved ions, microbial diversity was very low, with Aquificales sequences dominating bacterial communities at most pools. The archaeal component of all pools was almost exclusively Acidianus spp. and did not vary between sites with different chemical characteristics. In the pool with the highest boron and sulfate concentrations, only archaeal sequences were detected. Compared with other sulfur springs such as those at Yellowstone, the microbial diversity at St. Lucia is very different, but it is similar to that at the nearby Lesser Antilles island of Montserrat. While high elemental concentrations seem to be related to differences in bacterial diversity here, similarities with other Lesser Antilles sites suggest that there may be a biogeographical component as well.	2009	10.1111/j.1574-6941.2009.00780.x
Convey, P; Stevens, MI; Hodgson, DA; Smellie, JL; Hillenbrand, CD; Barnes, DKA; Clarke, A; Pugh, PJA; Linse, K; Cary, SC	Exploring biological constraints on the glacial history of Antarctica	QUATERNARY SCIENCE REVIEWS	The evolutionary and biogeographic history of the contemporary Antarctic terrestrial and marine biotas reveals many components of ancient origin. For large elements of the terrestrial biota, long-term isolation over timescales from hundreds of thousands to tens of millions of years, and thus persistence through multiple glacial cycles, now appears to be the norm rather than the exception. For the marine biota there are some parallels with benthic communities also including ancient components, together with an incidence of species-level endemism indicating long-term isolation on the Antarctic continental shelf Although it has long been known that a few ice-free terrestrial locations have existed in Antarctica for up to 10-12 million years, particularly in the Dry Valleys of Victoria Land along with certain nunataks and higher regions of large mountain ranges, these do not provide potential refugia for the majority of terrestrial biota, which occur mainly in coastal and/or low-lying locations and exhibit considerable biogeographic regionalisation within the continent. Current glacial models and reconstructions do not have the spatial resolution to detect unequivocally either the number or geographical distribution of these glacial refugia, or areas of the continental shelf that have remained periodically free from ice scouring, but do provide limits for their maximum spatial extent. Recent work on the evolution of the terrestrial biota indicates that refugia were much more widespread than has been recognised and it is now clear that terrestrial biology provides novel constraints for reconstructing the past glacial history of Antarctica, and new marine biological investigations of the Antarctic shelf are starting to do likewise. (C) 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2009	10.1016/j.quascirev.2009.08.015
Pearson, T; Giffard, P; Beckstrom-Sternberg, S; Auerbach, R; Hornstra, H; Tuanyok, A; Price, EP; Glass, MB; Leadem, B; Beckstrom-Sternberg, JS; Allan, GJ; Foster, JT; Wagner, DM; Okinaka, RT; Sim, SH; Pearson, O; Wu, ZN; Chang, J; Kaul, R; Hoffmaster, AR; Brettin, TS; Robison, RA; Mayo, M; Gee, JE; Tan, P; Currie, BJ; Keim, P	Phylogeographic reconstruction of a bacterial species with high levels of lateral gene transfer	BMC BIOLOGY	Background: Phylogeographic reconstruction of some bacterial populations is hindered by low diversity coupled with high levels of lateral gene transfer. A comparison of recombination levels and diversity at seven housekeeping genes for eleven bacterial species, most of which are commonly cited as having high levels of lateral gene transfer shows that the relative contributions of homologous recombination versus mutation for Burkholderia pseudomallei is over two times higher than for Streptococcus pneumoniae and is thus the highest value yet reported in bacteria. Despite the potential for homologous recombination to increase diversity, B. pseudomallei exhibits a relative lack of diversity at these loci. In these situations, whole genome genotyping of orthologous shared single nucleotide polymorphism loci, discovered using next generation sequencing technologies, can provide very large data sets capable of estimating core phylogenetic relationships. We compared and searched 43 whole genome sequences of B. pseudomallei and its closest relatives for single nucleotide polymorphisms in orthologous shared regions to use in phylogenetic reconstruction. Results: Bayesian phylogenetic analyses of > 14,000 single nucleotide polymorphisms yielded completely resolved trees for these 43 strains with high levels of statistical support. These results enable a better understanding of a separate analysis of population differentiation among > 1,700 B. pseudomallei isolates as defined by sequence data from seven housekeeping genes. We analyzed this larger data set for population structure and allele sharing that can be attributed to lateral gene transfer. Our results suggest that despite an almost panmictic population, we can detect two distinct populations of B. pseudomallei that conform to biogeographic patterns found in many plant and animal species. That is, separation along Wallaces Line, a biogeographic boundary between Southeast Asia and Australia. Conclusion: We describe an Australian origin for B. pseudomallei, characterized by a single introduction event into Southeast Asia during a recent glacial period, and variable levels of lateral gene transfer within populations. These patterns provide insights into mechanisms of genetic diversification in B. pseudomallei and its closest relatives, and provide a framework for integrating the traditionally separate fields of population genetics and phylogenetics for other bacterial species with high levels of lateral gene transfer.	2009	10.1186/1741-7007-7-78
Besemer, K; Singer, G; Hodl, I; Battin, TJ	Bacterial Community Composition of Stream Biofilms in Spatially Variable-Flow Environments	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Streams are highly heterogeneous ecosystems, in terms of both geomorphology and hydrodynamics. While flow is recognized to shape the physical architecture of benthic biofilms, we do not yet understand what drives community assembly and biodiversity of benthic biofilms in the heterogeneous flow landscapes of streams. Within a metacommunity ecology framework, we experimented with streambed landscapes constructed from bedforms in large-scale flumes to illuminate the role of spatial flow heterogeneity in biofilm community composition and biodiversity in streams. Our results show that the spatial variation of hydrodynamics explained a remarkable percentage (up to 47%) of the variation in community composition along bedforms. This suggests species sorting as a model of metacommunity dynamics in stream biofilms, though natural biofilm communities will clearly not conform to a single model offered by metacommunity ecology. The spatial variation induced by the hydrodynamics along the bedforms resulted in a gradient of bacterial beta diversity, measured by a range of diversity and similarity indices, that increased with bedform height and hence with spatial flow heterogeneity at the flume level. Our results underscore the necessity to maintain small-scale physical heterogeneity for community composition and biodiversity of biofilms in stream ecosystems.	2009	10.1128/AEM.01284-09
Whitaker, RJ	Evolution: Spatial Scaling of Microbial Interactions	CURRENT BIOLOGY	Intraspecific incompatibility in the soil bacterium Myxococcus xanthus demonstrates that the social life of microbes is antagonistic on local and global scales. Antagonistic interactions and non-self recognition are likely to promote microbial diversity in local populations.	2009	10.1016/j.cub.2009.09.035
Faith, DP; Lozupone, CA; Nipperess, D; Knight, R	The Cladistic Basis for the Phylogenetic Diversity (PD) Measure Links Evolutionary Features to Environmental Gradients and Supports Broad Applications of Microbial Ecologys Phylogenetic Beta Diversity Framework	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF MOLECULAR SCIENCES	The PD measure of phylogenetic diversity interprets branch lengths cladistically to make inferences about feature diversity. PD calculations extend conventional species-level ecological indices to the features level. The phylogenetic beta diversity framework developed by microbial ecologists calculates PD-dissimilarities between community localities. Interpretation of these PD-dissimilarities at the feature level explains the frameworks success in producing ordinations revealing environmental gradients. An example gradients space using PD-dissimilarities illustrates how evolutionary features form unimodal response patterns to gradients. This features model supports new application of existing species-level methods that are robust to unimodal responses, plus novel applications relating to climate change, commercial products discovery, and community assembly.	2009	10.3390/ijms10114723
Han, LL; Wang, ET; Han, TX; Liu, J; Sui, XH; Chen, WF; Chen, WX	Unique community structure and biogeography of soybean rhizobia in the saline-alkaline soils of Xinjiang, China	PLANT AND SOIL	To investigate the community composition and biogeography of soybean rhizobia in Xinjiang, a total of 151 strains were investigated with RFLP and phylogenetic analyses of 16S rRNA gene, 16S-23S intergenic spacer, three housekeeping genes (atpD, glnII and recA), and two symbiotic genes (nifH and nodC), as well as cross-nodulation. Two rhizobial species, Bradyrhizobium liaoningense and Sinorhizobium fredii, were found as dominant groups in communities of soybean rhizobia in Xinjiang, whereas three Rhizobium genomic species, B. yuanmingense and B. japonicum, were minor groups. These genomic species showed clear correlations with eco-regions, and their symbiotic genes were identical or very similar to those of the reference strains for the corresponding species. Conclusively, the dominant soybean rhizobia S. fredii and B. liaoningense in Xinjiang might be introduced from other Chinese regions, but they have been selected as the rhizobia adapted to the saline-alkaline soils. The high pH, salinity, and phosphate concentration in soil might be the environmental factors determining the biogeography of these bacteria. It is worth mentioning that a novel Rhizobium species that may have acquired the symbiotic genes from a Bradyrhizobium lineage was identified.	2009	10.1007/s11104-009-9956-6
Naganuma, T; Wilmotte, A	Microbiological and ecological responses to global environmental changes in polar regions (MERGE): An IPY core coordinating project	POLAR SCIENCE	An integrated program, Microbiological and ecological responses to global environmental changes in polar regions (MERGE), was proposed in the International Polar Year (IPY) 2007-2008 and endorsed by the IPY committee as a coordinating proposal. MERGE hosts original proposals to the IPY and facilitates their funding. MERGE selected three key questions to produce scientific achievements. Prokaryotic and eukaryotic organisms in terrestrial, lacustrine, and supraglacial habitats were targeted according to diversity and biogeography; food webs and ecosystem evolution; and linkages between biological, chemical, and physical processes in the supraglacial biome. MERGE hosted 13 original and seven additional proposals, with two full proposals. It respected the priorities and achievements of the individual proposals and aimed to unify their significant results. Ideas and projects followed a bottom-up rather than a top-down approach. We intend to inform the MERGE community of the initial results and encourage ongoing collaboration. Scientists from non-polar regions have also participated and are encouraged to remain involved in MERGE. MERGE is formed by scientists from Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, Egypt, Finland, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, New Zealand, Philippines, Poland, Russia, Spain, UK, Uruguay, USA, and Vietnam, and associates from Chile, Denmark, Netherlands, and Norway. (C) 2009 Elsevier B.V. and NIPR. All rights reserved.	2009	10.1016/j.polar.2009.05.001
De Wever, A; Leliaert, F; Verleyen, E; Vanormelingen, P; Van der Gucht, K; Hodgson, DA; Sabbe, K; Vyverman, W	Hidden levels of phylodiversity in Antarctic green algae: further evidence for the existence of glacial refugia	PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY B-BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES	Recent data revealed that metazoans such as mites and springtails have persisted in Antarctica throughout several glacial-interglacial cycles, which contradicts the existing paradigm that terrestrial life was wiped out by successive glacial events and that the current inhabitants are recent colonizers. We used molecular phylogenetic techniques to study Antarctic microchlorophyte strains isolated from lacustrine habitats from maritime and continental Antarctica. The 14 distinct chlorophycean and trebouxiophycean lineages observed point to a wide phylogenetic diversity of apparently endemic Antarctic lineages at different taxonomic levels. This supports the hypothesis that long-term survival took place in glacial refugia, resulting in a specific Antarctic flora. The majority of the lineages have estimated ages between 17 and 84 Ma and probably diverged from their closest relatives around the time of the opening of Drake Passage (30-45 Ma), while some lineages with longer branch lengths have estimated ages that precede the break-up of Gondwana. The variation in branch length and estimated age points to several independent but rare colonization events.	2009	10.1098/rspb.2009.0994
Berthrong, ST; Schadt, CW; Pineiro, G; Jackson, RB	Afforestation Alters the Composition of Functional Genes in Soil and Biogeochemical Processes in South American Grasslands	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Soil microbes are highly diverse and control most soil biogeochemical reactions. We examined how microbial functional genes and biogeochemical pools responded to the altered chemical inputs accompanying land use change. We examined paired native grasslands and adjacent Eucalyptus plantations (previously grassland) in Uruguay, a region that lacked forests before European settlement. Along with measurements of soil carbon, nitrogen, and bacterial diversity, we analyzed functional genes using the GeoChip 2.0 microarray, which simultaneously quantified several thousand genes involved in soil carbon and nitrogen cycling. Plantations and grassland differed significantly in functional gene profiles, bacterial diversity, and biogeochemical pool sizes. Most grassland profiles were similar, but plantation profiles generally differed from those of grasslands due to differences in functional gene abundance across diverse taxa. Eucalypts decreased ammonification and N fixation functional genes by 11% and 7.9% (P < 0.01), which correlated with decreased microbial biomass N and more NH4+ in plantation soils. Chitinase abundance decreased 7.8% in plantations compared to levels in grassland (P = 0.017), and C polymer-degrading genes decreased by 1.5% overall (P < 0.05), which likely contributed to 54% (P < 0.05) more C in undecomposed extractable soil pools and 27% less microbial C (P < 0.01) in plantation soils. In general, afforestation altered the abundance of many microbial functional genes, corresponding with changes in soil biogeochemistry, in part through altered abundance of overall functional gene types rather than simply through changes in specific taxa. Such changes in microbial functional genes correspond with altered C and N storage and have implications for long-term productivity in these soils.	2009	10.1128/AEM.01126-09
Wu, YP; Ma, B; Zhou, L; Wang, HZ; Xu, JM; Kemmitt, S; Brookes, PC	Changes in the soil microbial community structure with latitude in eastern China, based on phospholipid fatty acid analysis	APPLIED SOIL ECOLOGY	Phospholipid fatty acid (PLFA) profiles were measured in soils from 14 sites in eastern China representing typical geographic zones of varying latitude from north (47.4 degrees N) to south (21.4 degrees N). Amounts of soil microbial biomass, measured as total amounts of PLFAs, showed no regular trend with latitude, but were positively correlated with soil organic carbon content, the concentration of humic acid and amorphous iron oxide. Soil microbial community structure showed some biogeographical distribution trends and was separated into three groups in a cluster analysis and principal coordinate analysis of log transformed PLFA concentrations (mol%). Soils in the first group came from northern China with medium mean annual temperature (1.2-15.7 degrees C) and rainfall (550-1021 mm). Soils in the second group originated from southern China with a relatively higher mean annual temperature (15.7-21.2 degrees C) and rainfall (1021-1690 mm). Soils clustered in the third group originated from the most southerly region. The northern soils contained relatively more bacteria and Grain-negative PLFAs, while the southern soils had more fungi and pressure indexed PLFAs. These differences in soil microbial community structure were largely explained by soil pH, while other site and soil characteristics were less important. (C) 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2009	10.1016/j.apsoil.2009.08.002
Thurber, RV	Current insights into phage biodiversity and biogeography	CURRENT OPINION IN MICROBIOLOGY	Phages exert tremendous ecological and evolutionary forces directly on their bacterial hosts. Phage induced cell lysis also indirectly contributes to organic and inorganic nutrient recycling. Phage abundance, diversity, and distribution are therefore important parameters in ecosystem function. The assumption that phage consortia are ubiquitous and homogenous across habitats (everything is everywhere) is currently being re-evaluated. New studies on phage biogeography have found that some phages are globally distributed while others are unique and perhaps endemic to specific environments. Furthermore, advances in technology have allowed scientists to conduct experiments aimed at analyzing phage consortia over temporal scales, and surprisingly have found reoccurring patterns. This review discusses currents in the field of phage ecology with particular focus on efforts to characterize phage diversity and biogeography across various spatial and temporal scales.	2009	10.1016/j.mib.2009.08.008
Kumaresan, D; Abell, GCJ; Bodrossy, L; Stralis-Pavese, N; Murrell, JC	Spatial and temporal diversity of methanotrophs in a landfill cover soil are differentially related to soil abiotic factors	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY REPORTS	P>Methanotrophs present in landfill cover soil can limit methane emissions from landfill sites by oxidizing methane produced in landfill. Understanding the spatial and temporal distribution of populations of methanotrophs and the factors influencing their activity and diversity in landfill cover soil is critical to devise better landfill cover soil management strategies. pmoA-based microarray analyses of methanotroph community structure revealed a temporal shift in methanotroph populations across different seasons. Type II methanotrophs (particularly Methylocystis sp.) were found to be present across all seasons. Minor shifts in type I methanotroph populations were observed. In the case of spatial distribution, only minor differences in methanotroph community structure were observed with no recognizable patterns (both vertical and horizontal) at a 5 m scale. Correlation analysis between soil abiotic parameters (total C, N, NH(4)+, NO(3)- and water content) and distribution of methanotrophs revealed a lack of conclusive evidence for any distinct correlation pattern between measured abiotic parameters and methanotroph community structure, suggesting that complex interactions of several physico-chemical parameters shape methanotroph diversity and activity in landfill cover soils.	2009	10.1111/j.1758-2229.2009.00059.x
Gardi, C; Montanarella, L; Arrouays, D; Bispo, A; Lemanceau, P; Jolivet, C; Mulder, C; Ranjard, L; Rombke, J; Rutgers, M; Menta, C	Soil biodiversity monitoring in Europe: ongoing activities and challenges	EUROPEAN JOURNAL OF SOIL SCIENCE	P>The increasing interest in soil biodiversity and its protection includes both the biodiversity conservation issues and the mostly unknown economic and ecological values of services provided by soil biodiversity. Inventory and monitoring are necessary tools for the achievement of an adequate level of knowledge regarding soil biodiversity status and for the detection of biodiversity hot spots as well as areas where current levels of biodiversity are under threat of decline. In this paper the main tools and methodological approaches for soil biodiversity measurement are presented. Technical aspects related to the inventory and monitoring activities at a large spatial scale are discussed. A short review of some current experiences of soil biodiversity monitoring at the European level is also presented.	2009	10.1111/j.1365-2389.2009.01177.x
Soule, T; Anderson, IJ; Johnson, SL; Bates, ST; Garcia-Pichel, F	Archaeal populations in biological soil crusts from arid lands in North America	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	Archaea are common and abundant members of biological soil crust communities across large-scale biogeographic provinces of and North America. Regardless of microbial community development, archaeal populations averaged 2 x 10(7) 16S rRNA gene copies per gram of soil, representing around 5% of the prokaryotic (total calculated bacterial and archaeal) numbers assessed by quantitative-PCR. In contrast, archaeal diversity, determined by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis fingerprinting and clone libraries of 16S rRNA genes, was very restricted. Only six different phylotypes (all Crenarchaea) were detected, three of which were very dominant. Some phylotypes were widespread, while others were typical of Southern desert areas. (C) 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2009	10.1016/j.soilbio.2009.07.023
Cermeno, P; Falkowski, PG	Controls on Diatom Biogeography in the Ocean	SCIENCE	The extent to which the spatial distribution of marine planktonic microbes is controlled by local environmental selection or dispersal is poorly understood. Our ability to separate the effects of these two biogeographic controls is limited by the enormous environmental variability both in space and through time. To circumvent this limitation, we analyzed fossil diatom assemblages over the past similar to 1.5 million years from the world oceans and show that these eukaryotic microbes are not limited by dispersal. The lack of dispersal limitation in marine diatoms suggests that the biodiversity at the microbial level fundamentally differs from that of macroscopic animals and plants for which geographic isolation is a common component of speciation.	2009	10.1126/science.1174159
Pagaling, E; Wang, HZ; Venables, M; Wallace, A; Grant, WD; Cowan, DA; Jones, BE; Ma, YH; Ventosa, A; Heaphy, S	Microbial Biogeography of Six Salt Lakes in Inner Mongolia, China, and a Salt Lake in Argentina	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	We used cultivation-independent methods to investigate the prokaryotic biogeography of the water column in six salt lakes in Inner Mongolia, China, and a salt lake in Argentina. These lakes had different salt compositions and pH values and were at variable geographic distances, on both local and intercontinental scales, which allowed us to explore the microbial community composition within the context of both contemporary environmental conditions and geographic distance. Fourteen 16S rRNA gene clone libraries were constructed, and over 200 16S rRNA gene sequences were obtained. These sequences were used to construct biotic similarity matrices, which were used in combination with environmental similarity matrices and a distance matrix in the Mantel test to discover which factors significantly influenced biotic similarity. We showed that archaeal biogeography was influenced by contemporary environmental factors alone (Na(+), CO(3)(2-), and HCO(3)(-) ion concentrations; pH; and temperature). Bacterial biogeography was influenced both by contemporary environmental factors (Na(+), Mg(2+), and HCO(3+) ion concentrations and pH) and by geographic distance.	2009	10.1128/AEM.00040-09
Humbert, JF; Dorigo, U; Cecchi, P; Le Berre, B; Debroas, D; Bouvy, M	Comparison of the structure and composition of bacterial communities from temperate and tropical freshwater ecosystems	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	P>We used a partial 16S rRNA sequencing approach to compare the structure and composition of the bacterial communities in three large, deep subalpine lakes in France with those of communities in six shallow tropical reservoirs in Burkina Faso. Despite the very different characteristics of these ecosystems, we found that their bacterial communities share the same composition in regard to the relative proportions of the different phyla, suggesting that freshwater environmental conditions lead to convergence in this composition. In the same way, we found no significant difference in the richness and diversity of the bacterial communities in France and Burkina Faso. We defined core and satellite operational taxonomic units (OTUs) (sequences sharing at least 98% identity) on the basis of their abundance and their geographical distribution. The core OTUs were found either ubiquitously or only in temperate or tropical and subtropical areas, and they contained more than 70% of all the sequences retrieved in this study. In contrast, satellite OTUs were characterized by having a more restricted geographical distribution and by lower abundance. Finally, the bacterial community composition of these freshwater ecosystems in France and Burkina Faso was markedly different, showing that the history of these ecosystems and regional environmental parameters have a greater impact on the relative abundances of the different OTUs in each bacterial community than the local environmental conditions.	2009	10.1111/j.1462-2920.2009.01960.x
Zhang, R; Lau, SCK; Ki, JS; Thiyagarajan, V; Qian, PY	Response of bacterioplankton community structures to hydrological conditions and anthropogenic pollution in contrasting subtropical environments	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Bacterioplankton community structures under contrasting subtropical marine environments (Hong Kong waters) were analyzed using 16S rRNA gene denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) and subsequent sequencing of predominant bands for samples collected bimonthly from 2004 to 2006 at five stations. Generally, bacterial abundance was significantly higher in the summer than in the winter. The general seasonal variations of the bacterial community structure, as indicated by cluster analysis of the DGGE pattern, were best correlated with temperature at most stations, except for the station close to a sewage discharge outfall, which was best explained by pollution-indicating parameters (e.g. biochemical oxygen demand). Anthropogenic pollutions appear to have affected the presence and the intensity of DGGE bands at the stations receiving discharge of primarily treated sewage. The relative abundance of major bacterial species, calculated by the relative intensity of DGGE bands after PCR amplification, also indicated the effects of hydrological or seasonal variations and sewage discharges. For the first time, a systematic molecular fingerprinting analysis of the bacterioplankton community composition was carried out along the environmental and pollution gradient in a subtropical marine environment, and it suggests that hydrological conditions and anthropogenic pollutions altered the total bacterial community as well as the dominant bacterial groups.	2009	10.1111/j.1574-6941.2009.00726.x
Yang, J; Zhang, WJ; Shen, YF	Relationships between Testate Amoebae Assemblages (Protozoa) and Geographic Factors in Yunnan Plateau Lakes, China	JOURNAL OF FRESHWATER ECOLOGY	Knowledge of the effect of geographic factors on the assemblages of protozoan testate amoebae is still limited, despite there having been a number of studies on this fauna. We applied statistical analyses to data on the distribution of testate amoebae from nine major lakes in the Yunnan Plateau, southwest China. Cluster analysis, based on community structure, separated the lakes into two groups - the oligotrophic/mesotrophic lakes and the hypercutrophic lakes - confirming the idea that the testate amoebae assemblages in lakes are closely related to the trophic status. Additionally, within the oligotrophic/mesotrophic lakes, there was distinct geographic clustering. Linear regression analysis and the Mantel test both revealed that similarity of species composition decreased with increasing geographic distance among the oligotrophic/mesotrophic lakes.	2009	10.1080/02705060.2009.9664316
Kyselkova, M; Kopecky, J; Sagova-Mareckova, M; Grundmann, GL; Moenne-Loccoz, Y	Oligonucleotide microarray methodology for taxonomic and functional monitoring of microbial community composition	PLANT SOIL AND ENVIRONMENT	Microarray analysis is a cultivation-independent, high-throughput technology that can be used for direct and simultaneous identification of microorganisms in complex environmental samples. This review summarizes current methodologies for oligonucleotide microarrays used in microbial ecology. It deals with probe design, microarray manufacturing, sample preparation and labeling, and data handling, as well as with the key features of microarray analysis such as specificity, sensitivity and quantification potential. Microarray analysis has been validated as an effective approach to describe the composition and dynamics of taxonomic and functional microbial communities, in environments including soil, compost, sediment, air or humans. It is now part of the technical arsenal available to address key issues in microbial community ecology, ranging from biogeography to ecosystem functioning.	2009	
Guil, N; Sanchez-Moreno, S; Machordom, A	Local biodiversity patterns in micrometazoans: Are tardigrades everywhere?	SYSTEMATICS AND BIODIVERSITY	The aim of this paper was to assess the relationships between habitat type and diversity indices, richness and abundance of terrestrial tardigrade communities. Our analyses are based on results from a survey performed in Sierra de Guadarrama, in the centre of the Iberian Peninsula. We performed a multi-habitat intensive sampling in terrestrial environments (mosses and lichens on rocks, tree trunks and leaf litter), to test if local biodiversity patterns for tardigrades exist, to test the everything is everywhere hypothesis, and if distributions can be attributed exclusively to environmental properties (as proposed for protists), or to a combination of historical and environmental events (as proposed for larger metazoans). Our analyses of richness, diversity indices and abundance of tardigrade communities revealed habitat-dependent patterns on these community descriptors. Leaf litter habitats showed high species richness and low abundances, rock habitats (mosses and lichens) showed intermediate species richness scores and high abundances, and trunk habitats (mosses and lichens) showed low numbers of both richness and abundances. Besides, common tardigrade species, and not scarce ones, determined the difference on tardigrade community composition between different habitats. We also describe two opposite patterns in tardigrade assemblages characterised by Heterotardigrada vs. Eutardigrada species; while Heterotardigrada-based communities presented low species richness and large tardigrade numbers, Eutardigrada-based assemblages showed high species richness and low abundances. in conclusion, tardigrade local biodiversity across habitats exhibited patterns closer to larger animals than to unicellular microorganisms even when environmental and biological conditions (small size, dispersal forms) are closer to these last organisms. Implications of these findings are discussed.	2009	10.1017/S1477200009003016
Lauber, CL; Hamady, M; Knight, R; Fierer, N	Pyrosequencing-Based Assessment of Soil pH as a Predictor of Soil Bacterial Community Structure at the Continental Scale	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Soils harbor enormously diverse bacterial populations, and soil bacterial communities can vary greatly in composition across space. However, our understanding of the specific changes in soil bacterial community structure that occur across larger spatial scales is limited because most previous work has focused on either surveying a relatively small number of soils in detail or analyzing a larger number of soils with techniques that provide little detail about the phylogenetic structure of the bacterial communities. Here we used a bar-coded pyrosequencing technique to characterize bacterial communities in 88 soils from across North and South America, obtaining an average of 1,501 sequences per soil. We found that overall bacterial community composition, as measured by pairwise UniFrac distances, was significantly correlated with differences in soil pH (r = 0.79), largely driven by changes in the relative abundances of Acidobacteria, Actinobacteria, and Bacteroidetes across the range of soil pHs. In addition, soil pH explains a significant portion of the variability associated with observed changes in the phylogenetic structure within each dominant lineage. The overall phylogenetic diversity of the bacterial communities was also correlated with soil pH (R-2 = 0.50), with peak diversity in soils with near-neutral pHs. Together, these results suggest that the structure of soil bacterial communities is predictable, to some degree, across larger spatial scales, and the effect of soil pH on bacterial community composition is evident at even relatively coarse levels of taxonomic resolution.	2009	10.1128/AEM.00335-09
Bachraty, C; Legendre, P; Desbruyeres, D	Biogeographic relationships among deep-sea hydrothermal vent faunas at global scale	DEEP-SEA RESEARCH PART I-OCEANOGRAPHIC RESEARCH PAPERS	The discovery of deep-sea hydrothermal vent fauna, kilometres deep in the oceans, is a great achievement of 20th-century marine biology. The deep-sea hydrothermal food web does not directly depend on the suns energy. Vent communities rely primarily on trophic associations between chemoautotrophic bacteria and consumers A small. number of endemic taxa are adapted to the inhospitable vent environments that are distributed along ridge crests. Where these vent communities originated and how they dispersed are among the important questions ecologists must answer. Here, by statistical analysis of the most comprehensive database ever assembled about deep-sea hydrothermal fauna, we delineate six major hydrothermal provinces in the world ocean and identify seven possible dispersal pathways between adjacent provinces. Our model suggests that the East-Pacific Rise may have played a pivotal role as a centre of dispersal for the hydrothermal fauna. Our data-driven conclusion will have to be tested by phylogenetic studies and completed by surveys of less-explored fields. (C) 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2009	10.1016/j.dsr.2009.01.009
