AU	TI	SO	AB	PY	VL	DI
Mascarenhas, R; Ruziska, FM; Moreira, EF; Campos, AB; Loiola, M; Reis, K; Trindade-Silva, AE; Barbosa, FAS; Salles, L; Menezes, R; Veiga, R; Coutinho, FH; Dutilh, BE; Guimaraes, PR; Assis, APA; Ara, A; Miranda, JGV; Andrade, RFS; Vilela, B; Meirelles, PM	Integrating Computational Methods to Investigate the Macroecology of Microbiomes	FRONTIERS IN GENETICS	Studies in microbiology have long been mostly restricted to small spatial scales. However, recent technological advances, such as new sequencing methodologies, have ushered an era of large-scale sequencing of environmental DNA data from multiple biomes worldwide. These global datasets can now be used to explore long standing questions of microbial ecology. New methodological approaches and concepts are being developed to study such large-scale patterns in microbial communities, resulting in new perspectives that represent a significant advances for both microbiology and macroecology. Here, we identify and review important conceptual, computational, and methodological challenges and opportunities in microbial macroecology. Specifically, we discuss the challenges of handling and analyzing large amounts of microbiome data to understand taxa distribution and co-occurrence patterns. We also discuss approaches for modeling microbial communities based on environmental data, including information on biological interactions to make full use of available Big Data. Finally, we summarize the methods presented in a general approach aimed to aid microbiologists in addressing fundamental questions in microbial macroecology, including classical propositions (such as everything is everywhere, but the environment selects) as well as applied ecological problems, such as those posed by human induced global environmental changes.	2020	10	10.3389/fgene.2019.01344
Li, PF; Li, WT; Dumbrell, AJ; Liu, M; Li, GL; Wu, M; Jiang, CY; Li, ZP	Spatial Variation in Soil Fungal Communities across Paddy Fields in Subtropical China	MSYSTEMS	Fungi underpin almost all terrestrial ecosystem functions, yet our understanding of their community ecology lags far behind that of other organisms. Here, red paddy soils in subtropical China were collected across a soil depth profile, comprising 0-to-10-cm- (0-10cm-), 10-20cm-, and 20-40cm-deep layers. Using IIlumina MiSeq amplicon sequencing of the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region, distance-decay relationships (DDRs), and ecological models, fungal assemblages and their spatial patterns were investigated from each soil depth. We observed significant spatial variation in fungal communities and found that environmental heterogeneity decreased with soil depth, while spatial variation in fungal communities showed the opposite trend. DDRs occurred only in 0-10cm- and 10-20cm-deep soil layers, not in the 20-40cm layer. Our analyses revealed that the fungal community assembly in the 0-10cm layer was primarily governed by environmental filtering and a high dispersal rate, while in the deeper layer (20-40cm), it was primarily governed by dispersal limitation with minimal environmental filtering. Both environmental filtering and dispersal limitation controlled fungal community assembly in the 10-20cm layer, with dispersal limitation playing the major role. Results demonstrate the decreasing importance of environmental filtering and an increase in the importance of dispersal limitation in structuring fungal communities from shallower to deeper soils. Effectively, everything is everywhere, but the environment selects, although only in shallower soils that are easily accessible to dispersive fungal propagules. This work highlights that perceived drivers of fungal community assembly are dependent on sampling depth, suggesting that caution is required when interpreting diversity patterns from samples that integrate across depths. IMPORTANCE In this work, IIlumina MiSeq amplicon sequencing of the ITS region was used to investigate the spatial variation and assembly mechanisms of fungal communities from different soil layers across paddy fields in subtropical China, and the results demonstrate the decreasing importance of environmental filtering and an increase in the importance of dispersal limitation in structuring fungal communities from shallower to deeper soils. Therefore, the results of this study highlight that perceived drivers of fungal community assembly are dependent on sampling depth and suggest that caution is required when interpreting diversity patterns from samples that integrate across depths. This is the first study focusing on assemblages of fungal communities in different soil layers on a relatively large scale, and we thus believe that this study is of great importance to researchers and readers in microbial ecology, especially in microbial biogeography, because the results can provide sampling guidance in future studies of microbial biogeography.	2020	5	10.1128/mSystems.00704-19
Wiegand, S; Jogler, M; Boedeker, C; Pinto, D; Vollmers, J; Rivas-Marin, E; Kohn, T; Peeters, SH; Heuer, A; Rast, P; Oberbeckmann, S; Bunk, B; Jeske, O; Meyerdierks, A; Storesund, JE; Kallscheuer, N; Lucker, S; Lage, OM; Pohl, T; Merkel, BJ; Hornburger, P; Muller, RW; Brummer, F; Labrenz, M; Spormann, AM; Op den Camp, HJM; Overmann, J; Amann, R; Jetten, MSM; Mascher, T; Medema, MH; Devos, DP; Kaster, AK; Ovreas, L; Rohde, M; Galperin, MY; Jogler, C	Cultivation and functional characterization of 79 planctomycetes uncovers their unique biology	NATURE MICROBIOLOGY	When it comes to the discovery and analysis of yet uncharted bacterial traits, pure cultures are essential as only these allow detailed morphological and physiological characterization as well as genetic manipulation. However, microbiologists are struggling to isolate and maintain the majority of bacterial strains, as mimicking their native environmental niches adequately can be a challenging task. Here, we report the diversity-driven cultivation, characterization and genome sequencing of 79 bacterial strains from all major taxonomic clades of the conspicuous bacterial phylum Planctomycetes. The samples were derived from different aquatic environments but close relatives could be isolated from geographically distinct regions and structurally diverse habitats, implying that everything is everywhere. With the discovery of lateral budding in Kolteria novifilia and the capability of the members of the Saltatorellus clade to divide by binary fission as well as budding, we identified previously unknown modes of bacterial cell division. Alongside unobserved aspects of cell signalling and small-molecule production, our findings demonstrate that exploration beyond the well-established model organisms has the potential to increase our knowledge of bacterial diversity. We illustrate how microbial dark matter can be accessed by cultivation techniques, expanding the organismic background for small-molecule research and drug-target detection.	2020	5	10.1038/s41564-019-0588-1
Spatharis, S; Lamprinou, V; Meziti, A; Kormas, KA; Danielidis, DD; Smeti, E; Roelke, DL; Mancy, R; Tsirtsis, G	Everything is not everywhere: can marine compartments shape phytoplankton assemblages?	PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY B-BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES	The idea that everything is everywhere, but the environment selects has been seminal in microbial biogeography, and marine phytoplankton is one of the prototypical groups used to illustrate this. The typical argument has been that phytoplankton is ubiquitous, but that distinct assemblages form under environmental selection. It is well established that phytoplankton assemblages vary considerably between coastal ecosystems. However, the relative roles of compartmentalization of regional seas and site-specific environmental conditions in shaping assemblage structures have not been specifically examined. We collected data from coastal embayments that fall within two different water compartments within the same regional sea and are characterized by highly localized environmental pressures. We used principal coordinates of neighbour matrices (PCNM) and asymmetric eigenvector maps (AEM) models to partition the effects that spatial structures, environmental conditions and their overlap had on the variation in assemblage composition. Our models explained a high percentage of variation in assemblage composition (59-65%) and showed that spatial structure consistent with marine compartmentalization played a more important role than local environmental conditions. At least during the study period, surface currents connecting sites within the two compartments failed to generate sufficient dispersal to offset the impact of differences due to compartmentalization. In other words, our findings suggest that, even for a prototypical cosmopolitan group, everything is not everywhere.	2019	286	10.1098/rspb.2019.1890
Cao, SN; Zhang, F; He, JF; Ji, ZQ; Zhou, QM	Water masses influence bacterioplankton community structure in summer Kongsfjorden	EXTREMOPHILES	To ascertain the saying Everything is everywhere, but the environment selects, it was imperative to find out the main factor influencing bacterioplankton composition at genus level of Kongsfjorden where was influenced both by glacier melting water and Atlantic water. Thus, bacterioplankton diversity was investigated using pyrosequencing. In addition, nutrients, chlorophyll a, in situ temperature and salinity were measured. There were seventeen of 33 identified genera with relative abundance > 0.1%. Redundancy analysis showed that 73.02% of bacterioplankton community variance could be explained by environmental parameters. Furthermore, most of the abundant genera demonstrated significant correlation with environment parameters revealed by correlation analysis. Moreover, phosphate, nitrate and Chl a concentration, and the abundance of top nine identified genera varied with water mass significantly as shown by analysis of variance. Our results supported the notion that environmental factors, especially water mass had significant effect on bacterioplankton distribution at genus level. Considering the high sensitivity to environmental change and low error rate in identification, bacterioplankton at genus level could be potential bio-markers for monitoring environmental changes.	2020	24	10.1007/s00792-019-01139-y
Delmont, TO; Kiefl, E; Kilinc, O; Esen, OC; Uysal, I; Rappe, MS; Giovannoni, S; Eren, AM	Single-amino acid variants reveal evolutionary processes that shape the biogeography of a global SAR11 subclade	ELIFE	Members of the SAR11 order Pelagibacterales dominate the surface oceans. Their extensive diversity challenges emerging operational boundaries defined for microbial species  and complicates efforts of population genetics to study their evolution. Here, we employed single-amino acid variants (SAAVs) to investigate ecological and evolutionary forces that maintain the genomic heterogeneity within ubiquitous SAR11 populations we accessed through metagenomic read recruitment using a single isolate genome. Integrating amino acid and protein biochemistry with metagenomics revealed that systematic purifying selection against deleterious variants governs non-synonymous variation among very closely related populations of SAR11. SAAVs partitioned metagenomes into two main groups matching large-scale oceanic current temperatures, and six finer proteotypes that connect distant oceanic regions. These findings suggest that environmentally-mediated selection plays a critical role in the journey of cosmopolitan surface ocean microbial populations, and the idea everything is everywhere but the environment selects has credence even at the finest resolutions.	2019	8	10.7554/eLife.46497
Thompson, LR; Haroon, MF; Shibl, AA; Cahill, MJ; Ngugi, DK; Williams, GJ; Morton, JT; Knight, R; Goodwin, KD; Stingl, U	Red Sea SAR11 and Prochlorococcus Single-Cell Genomes Reflect Globally Distributed Pangenomes	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Evidence suggests many marine bacteria are cosmopolitan, with widespread but sparse strains poised to seed abundant populations under conducive growth conditions. However, studies supporting this microbial seed bank hypothesis have analyzed taxonomic marker genes rather than whole genomes/metagenomes, leaving open the possibility that disparate ocean regions harbor endemic gene content. The Red Sea is isolated geographically from the rest of the ocean and has a combination of high irradiance, high temperature, and high salinity that is unique among the oceans; we therefore asked whether it harbors endemic gene content. We sequenced and assembled single-cell genomes of 21 SAR11 (subclades Ia, Ib, Id, and II) and 5 Prochlorococcus (ecotype HLII) samples from the Red Sea and combined them with globally sourced reference genomes to cluster genes into ortholog groups (OGs). Ordination of OG composition could distinguish clades, including phylogenetically cryptic Prochlorococcus ecotypes LLII and LLIII. Compared with reference genomes, 1% of Prochlorococcus and 17% of SAR11 OGs were unique to the Red Sea genomes (RS-OGs). Most (83%) RS-OGs had no annotated function, but 65% of RS-OGs were expressed in diel Red Sea metatranscriptomes, suggesting they are functional. Searching Tara Oceans metagenomes, RS-OGs were as likely to be found as non-RS-OGs; nevertheless, Red Sea and other warm samples could be distinguished from cooler samples using the relative abundances of OGs. The results suggest that the prevalence of OGs in these surface ocean bacteria is largely cosmopolitan, with differences in population metagenomes manifested by differences in relative abundance rather than complete presence/absence of OGs. IMPORTANCE Studies have shown that as we sequence seawater from a selected environment deeper and deeper, we approach finding every bacterial taxon known for the ocean as a whole. However, such studies have focused on taxonomic marker genes rather than on whole genomes, raising the possibility that the lack of endemism results from the method of investigation. We took a geographically isolated water body, the Red Sea, and sequenced single cells from it. We compared those single-cell genomes to available genomes from around the ocean and to ocean-spanning metagenomes. We showed that gene ortholog groups found in Red Sea genomes but not in other genomes are nevertheless common across global ocean metagenomes. These results suggest that Baas Beckings hypothesis everything is everywhere, but the environment selects also applies to gene ortholog groups. This widely dispersed functional diversity may give oceanic microbial communities the functional capacity to respond rapidly to changing conditions.	2019	85	10.1128/AEM.00369-19
Honeyman, AS; Day, ML; Spear, JR	Regional fresh snowfall microbiology and chemistry are driven by geography in storm-tracked events, Colorado, USA	PEERJ	Snowfall is a global phenomenon highly integrated with hydrology and ecology. Forays into studying bioaerosols and their dependence on aeolian movement are largely constrained to either precipitation-independent analyses or in silico models. Though snowpack and glacial microbiological studies have been conducted, little is known about the biological component of meteoric snow. Through culture-independent phylogenetic and geochemical analyses, we show that the geographical location at which snow precipitates determines snowfalls geochemical and microbiological composition. Storm-tracking, furthermore, can be used as a valuable environmental indicator to trace down what factors are influencing bioaerosols. We estimate annual aeolian snowfall deposits of up to similar to 10 kg of bacterial/archaeal biomass per hectare along our study area of the eastern Front Range in Colorado. The dominant kinds of microbiota captured in an analysis of seven snow events at two different locations, one urban, one rural, across the winter of 2016/2017 included phyla Proteobacteria, Bacteroidetes, Firmicutes, and Acidobacteria, though a multitude of different kinds of organisms were found in both. Taxonomically, Bacteroidetes were more abundant in Golden (urban plain) snow while Proteobacteria were more common in Sunshine (rural mountain) samples. Chemically, Golden snowfall was positively correlated with some metals and anions. The work also hints at better informing the everything is everywhere hypotheses of the microbial world and that atmospheric transport of microbiota is not only common, but is capable of disseminating vast amounts of microbiota of different physiologies and genetics that then affect ecosystems globally. Snowfall, we conclude, is a significant repository of microbiological material with strong implications for both ecosystem genetic flux and general bio-aerosol theory.	2018	6	10.7717/peerj.5961
Sturmer, SL; Bever, JD; Morton, JB	Biogeography of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (Glomeromycota) a phylogenetic perspective on species distribution patterns	MYCORRHIZA	Information on the biogeography of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) is important because this group of obligately symbiotic soil microbes is a ubiquitous and functionally critical component of terrestrial ecosystems. In this paper, we utilize a biogeography database summarizing data on AMF species distribution linked to geographic and environmental conditions to describe global distribution patterns and interpret these patterns within a phylogenetic perspective. The data were obtained from accessions in living culture collections (INVAM, CICG), species descriptions, and other published literature from 1960 to 2012. The database contains 7105 records, 6396 of them from 768 published papers and the remaining 709 from culture accessions. Glomeromycotan species were recorded in all seven continents, 87 countries, 11 biogeographical realms, and 14 biomes. The distribution of families differed among climatic zones and continents, but they. together with all genera, appear to be cosmopolitan. Distribution of AMF species shows a slight decrease from low to high latitudes, but this decrease is steeper in the southern than in the northern hemisphere. A total of 189 species is shared between ancient supercontinents Gondwana and Laurasia and 78 species are common to all climatic zones. Ninety five species (43% of the total) have known cosmopolitan distribution, including members of all genera except Redeckera. Some species have disjunct distribution and 26% of species have been registered from only one continent. Data on AMF distribution challenge the Everything is everywhere hypothesis in favor of the moderate endemicity model for species distribution. Data from this study provide a foundation to formulate and test hypotheses of biogeographic patterns and processes in Glomeromycota.	2018	28	10.1007/s00572-018-0864-6
Azovsky, AI	Robustness of relative diversity metrics to inventory incompleteness: Could we estimate the near imponderable?	GLOBAL ECOLOGY AND BIOGEOGRAPHY	Aim Relative diversity metrics (RDMs), such as local : global or regional : global diversity ratios and percentage of endemics, are widely applied in biodiversity studies. This approach, however, is flawed because the real global diversity of many taxa is still largely unknown, especially for rare species. This potential inconsistency of RDMs has not been proved (or disproved) thus far. Here, I use simulation models to explore the efficiency of RDM estimations from incomplete inventories. Location Methods World-wide. Three simple models of species distribution were used: (a) the everything is everywhere model (unlimited dispersal, i.e., equal probability for a species to occur at every point); (b) the environmental selection model (each species can occupy only a portion of randomly distributed suitable localities according to its ecological preferences); and (c) the endemicity model (most species are restricted to a few regions each). To parameterize these models, the world-wide datasets on ciliates, flagellates and harpacticoid copepods were used. The RDMs were estimated by simulating equal-effort sampling and by varying the full number of species and number of sampled individuals per cell. Results Main conclusions Estimated species richness at any scale was heavily influenced by the sampling effort and was greatly underestimated with small sample sizes. The estimated RDM values also depended on the sampling effort (being either upward or downward biased) but were only slightly influenced by the unrecorded part of real global diversity (ignorance). The predictions of the first two models were generally close to each other but differed noticeably from those of the third model. The relative metrics, albeit influenced by undersampling, are nevertheless more robust to inventory incompleteness than absolute measures and can therefore be a reliable tool in comparative biodiversity studies, even if the true number of species cannot be estimated overall. Their estimated values, however, must be interpreted with caution.	2018	27	10.1111/geb.12777
Yang, T; Adams, JM; Shi, Y; Sun, HB; Cheng, L; Zhang, YJ; Chu, HY	Fungal community assemblages in a high elevation desert environment: Absence of dispersal limitation and edaphic effects in surface soil	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	Recent studies have shown the significant effects of environmental selection and possible dispersal limitation on soil fungal communities. However, less is known about the role of soil depth in fungal community assemblages, especially under soil environments that are intensely cold, infertile and water deficient In Ngari drylands of the Asiatic Plateau, we studied fungal assemblages at two soil depths, using Illumina sequencing of the ITS2 region for fungal identification (0-15 cm as the surface soil and 15 -30 cm as the subsurface soil). Fungal diversity in the surface soil was much higher than that in the subsurface soil (P < 0.001), and communities differed significantly between the two layers (P = 0.001). Neither soil properties nor dispersal limitation could explain variation in the surface-soil fungal community. For the subsurface, by contrast, soil, climate and space explained 27% of variation in fungal community. Collectively, these results point to high dispersal rates and absence of edaphic effects in the surface-soil fungal community assemblage in Ngari drylands. It also suggests that for soil fungi with highly effective dispersal, regional distributions may fit with Bass-Beckings paradigm that Everything is everywhere. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2017	115	10.1016/j.soilbio.2017.09.013
Garraffoni, ARS; Balsamo, M	Is the ubiquitous distribution real for marine gastrotrichs? Detection of areas of endemism using Parsimony Analysis of Endemicity (PAE)	PROCEEDINGS OF THE BIOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF WASHINGTON	Geographical patterns in microorganisms distribution is a matter of intense debate. Following the assumption that everything is everywhere (EiE hypothesis), it is expected that microscopic animals do not have any scale spatial pattern of distribution due to high abundances, resting stages, and long-distance dispersal. Gastrotrichs are one of the most common components of the marine soft-body meiofauna. To assess the validity of EiE hypotheses on marine gastrotrichs, we applied Parsimony Analysis of Endemism (PAE) to identify areas of endemism. We used provinces of coastal and continental shelves of the world as operational units to define the distribution of 458 marine species of Gastrotricha. We found 10 areas of endemism, most of them were recorded from Europe and North America, and some areas were also consistent with the distribution of other benthic groups. An area of endemism is obtained when at least two species are perfectly congruent in their distribution. Moreover, the state of knowledge of the true species distribution is directly related to the intensity and spatial variation of the sampling effort. Thus, it is not a surprise to note that most areas of endemism are in the North Hemisphere, where gastrotrichs have been especially and longer sampled and their geographic range size is well known. On the other hand, the absence of endemism areas in South Hemisphere is related to sampling insufficiency. However, some level of endemism was found and the ubiquitous distribution of gastrotrich species is strongly questioned.	2017	130	10.2988/17-00011
Duarte, S; Cassio, F; Pascoal, C	Environmental drivers are more important for structuring fungal decomposer communities than the geographic distance between streams	LIMNETICA	One of the major challenges in microbial ecology is to unravel the mechanisms that operate at the spatial-temporal scales structuring microbial communities and how these communities respond to environmental change. It has been argued that the biogeography of microorganisms solely reflects the influence of contemporary environmental variation and everything is everywhere. Since the discovery of the key role that decomposer fungi, in particular aquatic hyphomycetes, play in leaf-litter decomposition in streams, mycologists were interested in deciphering several ecological aspects, including the factors that shape the distribution of these communities in streams. At local and regional scales, community structure is affected by several abiotic factors such as pH, temperature, conductivity and nutrients in the stream water, but at a global scale, community similarity also decreases as a function of the geographic distance. However, very few attempts have been conducted to assess the relative influence of environmental versus geographic factors in structuring decomposer fungi in streams. In the current study, we attempted to fulfil this lacuna by quantifying the relative contributions of environmental factors versus spatial factors to community composition, by using data of species composition and environmental (temperature, pH, conductivity and nutrient concentrations) and spatial variables (latitude, longitude and altitude), collected during a recent extensive literature search. Alfa diversity was negatively affected by pH, conductivity, nitrates and phosphorus concentrations in the stream water. On the other hand, a unimodal type relationship was found between species richness and temperature, latitude or altitude. Beta-diversity was also strongly influenced by environmental factors, in particular conductivity, nitrates and phosphorus concentrations, and pH in stream water, but also by the geographic location (latitude and longitude) of the study sites. However, when the effects were disentangled a significant effect was found only for environmental variables. This suggests that stream dwelling decomposer fungi may exhibit biogeographic patterns, but as proposed by Baas-Becking the environment selects and is in part responsible for the spatial variation of stream-dwelling decomposer fungi. However, our conclusions should be taken cautiously because our data were extracted from the literature and reflect a geographical bias in the collection effort. Thus, future investigations should involve broad-scale coordinated surveys, incorporating a larger number of streams in different latitudinal bands and along large environmental gradients, to better assess the relative importance of environmental and geographical factors in structuring fungal communities in streams.	2017	36	10.23818/limn.36.17
Gonzalez-Rocha, G; Munoz-Cartes, G; Canales-Aguirre, CB; Lima, CA; Dominguez-Yevenes, M; Bello-Toledo, H; Hernandez, CE	Diversity structure of culturable bacteria isolated from the Fildes Peninsula (King George Island, Antarctica): A phylogenetic analysis perspective	PLOS ONE	It has been proposed that Antarctic environments select microorganisms with unique biochemical adaptations, based on the tenet Everything is everywhere, but, the environment selects by Baas-Becking. However, this is a hypothesis that has not been extensively evaluated. This study evaluated the fundamental prediction contained in this hypothesis-in the sense that species are structured in the landscape according to their local habitats-, using as study model the phylogenetic diversity of the culturable bacteria of Fildes Peninsula (King George Island, Antarctica). Eighty bacterial strains isolated from 10 different locations in the area, were recovered. Based on phylogenetic analysis of 16S rRNA gene sequences, the isolates were grouped into twenty-six phylotypes distributed in three main clades, of which only six are exclusive to Antarctica. Results showed that phylotypes do not group significantly by habitat type; however, local habitat types had phylogenetic signal, which support the phylogenetic niche conservatism hypothesis and not a selective role of the environment like the Baas-Becking hypothesis suggests. We propose that, more than habitat selection resulting in new local adaptations and diversity, local historical colonization and species sorting (i.e. differences in speciation and extinction rates that arise by interaction of species level traits with the environment) play a fundamental role on the culturable bacterial diversity in Antarctica.	2017	12	10.1371/journal.pone.0179390
