AU	TI	SO	AB	PY	VL	DI
Su, YG; Liu, J; Zhang, BC; Zhao, HM; Huang, G	Habitat-specific environmental factors regulate spatial variability of soil bacterial communities in biocrusts across northern Chinas drylands	SCIENCE OF THE TOTAL ENVIRONMENT	Biocrusts are common biotic components in diyland ecosystems worldwide, they contain diverse soil organisms and effectively enhance soil stability and perform a series of key ecological functions. However, the geographical pattern of microbial communities in biocrusts is rarely assessed, despite it is closely related to the spatial variation of ecosystem functions in drylands. We assessed soil bacterial communities in biocrusts across four ecosystems (Gobi, desert, desert steppe and grassland) in a precipitation gradient (16-566 mm yr(-1)) in northern China. Bacterial OTU number and phylogenetic diversity did not linearly increase with decreasing aridity, they were significantly lower in Gobi and similar among desert, desert steppe and grassland. Soil bacterial community composition in Gobi and desert were different than those in desert steppe and grassland, and they were similar between Gobi and desert, this suggests the key role of habitat in structuring soil bacterial communities. The geographic pattern of soil bacterial communities was strongly influenced by both geographic distance and environmental factors. The first explanatory factor for the geographic variation of bacterial community dissimilarity differed among four ecosystems, being aridity in Gobi and desert, precipitation in desert steppe, and soil inorganic nitrogen in grassland. The geographic pattern of the bacterial functional group profile showed a similar pattern with community composition across four ecosystems, and the groups of containing mobile elements and gram negative bacteria were more abundant in drier habitats of Gobi and desert. Our results reveal the non-linear changes in diversity, composition and functional group of soil bacterial communities in biocrusts across the precipitation gradient from hyper-arid to semi-humid regions, and suggest that the geographic distance and habitat-specific environmental factors determine the distribution of soil bacterial communities in different ecosystems. (C) 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2020	719	10.1016/j.scitotenv.2020.137479
Bock, C; Jensen, M; Forster, D; Marks, S; Nuy, J; Psenner, R; Beisser, D; Boenigk, J	Factors shaping community patterns of protists and bacteria on a European scale	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Factors shaping community patterns of microorganisms are controversially discussed. Physical and chemical factors certainly limit the survival of individual taxa and maintenance of diversity. In recent years, a contribution of geographic distance and dispersal barriers to distribution patterns of protists and bacteria has been demonstrated. Organismic interactions such as competition, predation and mutualism further modify community structure and maintenance of distinct taxa. Here, we address the relative importance of these different factors in shaping protists and bacterial communities on a European scale using high-throughput sequencing data obtained from lentic freshwater ecosystems. We show that community patterns of protists are similar to those of bacteria. Our results indicate that cross-domain organismic factors are important variables with a higher influence on protists as compared with bacteria. Abiotic physical and chemical factors also contributed significantly to community patterns. The contribution of these latter factors was higher for bacteria, which may reflect a stronger biogeochemical coupling. The contribution of geographical distance was similar for both microbial groups.			10.1111/1462-2920.14992
Su, YG; Chen, YW; Padilla, FM; Zhang, YM; Huang, G	The influence of biocrusts on the spatial pattern of soil bacterial communities: A case study at landscape and slope scales	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	Biocrusts are a functional unit in arid and semiarid areas, their development has significant recruitment and screening effects on soil microbial communities. Microbial composition of biocrusts exhibits significant geographical patterns, but the regulation of biocrust development on the geographical patterns in unclear. In this study, we examined bacterial communities from cyanobacterial-lichen and moss crust soils in five desert habitats in northern China, and evaluated the relative importance of environmental factors and biocrust development versus geographic distance to the distance-decay relationship. To explore the effects of the sampling scale on geographical patterns, we also examined soil bacterial communities along the slope of sand dunes. Across the five desert habitats, bacterial a-diversity, phylogenetic diversity, and the dominant bacterial phyla in cyanobacteriallichen crusts did not increase consistently with precipitation increase, instead bacterial community composition was mainly impacted by soil nutrients (SOC, TP) and biocrust development (thickness, cover and Chl a). Bacterial p-diversity in both cyanobacterial-lichen and moss crusts showed strong distance-decay relationships across the landscape scale; bacterial community composition in cyanobacterial-lichen crusts differed significantly among five desert habitats. Environmental and biocrust development variables explained bacterial community variation better than geographic distance, suggesting a weaker influence of dispersal limitation on the bacterial communities in biocrusts. In addition, the distance-decay rate was higher at the slope than that at the landscape scale, suggesting a fast turnover rate of bacterial community communities induced by topography. Our study implies that soil attributes and biocrust development have more profound impacts on soil bacterial communities than precipitation, which provides novel insights into the geographical distribution and assemblage of soil bacterial communities in deserts. Moreover, our study is significant with respect to understanding the potential responses of soil microbial communities to climate change in desert areas under the scenario of increasing precipitation variation.	2020	142	10.1016/j.soilbio.2020.107721
Sun, P; Wang, Y; Laws, E; Huang, BQ	Water mass-driven spatial effects and environmental heterogeneity shape microeukaryote biogeography in a subtropical, hydrographically complex ocean system - A case study of ciliates	SCIENCE OF THE TOTAL ENVIRONMENT	The relative importance of geographic distance and depth in shaping microeukaryote community composition on a regional scale remains unclear, especially how that composition is related to the movement of water masses. Here, we collected 156 water samples across the Taiwan Strait, which is characterized by complex topography and dynamic circulation, to investigate the composition of the ciliate community with high-throughput sequencing of the 18S rRNA gene transcript. Ciliate alpha diversity exhibited strong correlations with water chemistry, food abundance, and geographic distance; approximately 50% of the variance of the diversity could be explained by dissolved oxygen concentrations, chlorophyll a concentrations, bacterial abundance, and latitude. The sampling sites could be divided into three provinces based on the compositions of the ciliate communities, which exhibited a distinctly nonuniform spatial distribution pattern on a regional scale (587 km). Geographic distance, environmental conditions, and depth were identified as principal determinants of the ciliate community within the Strait. Geographic distance was the most influential factor. The effect of geographic distance seems to mainly reflect the movement of water masses that strongly constrain dispersal and contribute to environmental heterogeneity that accounts for 86.0% and 5.5%, respectively, of community valiance across the Strait. Overall, this study revealed that ciliate biogeography as a function of depth and environmental gradients is linked on a regional scale to the water masses that the ciliates inhabit. This result expands our knowledge of the drivers of microeukaryote community composition across regions within which there are water mass movements and strong spatial and environmental gradients. (C) 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2020	706	10.1016/j.scitotenv.2019.135753
Wang, XY; He, TH; Gen, SY; Zhang, XQ; Wang, X; Jiang, D; Li, CY; Li, CS; Wang, JL; Zhang, WY; Li, CD	Soil properties and agricultural practices shape microbial communities in flooded and rainfed croplands	APPLIED SOIL ECOLOGY	Understanding the dynamics of soil microbial communities and the factors that affect those dynamics is crucial for comprehending the processes affecting soil fertility in agricultural ecosystems. Here, we used shotgun DNA sequencing to characterise 29 soil microbial communities in flooded paddies in Chinas Yangtze River Basin, and comparatively analysed the composition and function of microbial communities with 132 communities from North and South Americas rainfed cropland. We hypothesised that soil microbial community diversity and functional composition are predominantly determined by edaphic properties and land-use history, rather than by spatial distance and climate. We revealed significant differences in taxonomic structure and functional composition among the microbial communities collected from a 2000 km transect along the Yangtze River and found that taxonomic diversity and genomic functional composition of the soil microbial communities were predominantly defined by soil pH. The significant correlation between soil pH and microbial community diversity can be extended to soils from different continents. Microbial communities in flooded paddies in China differed significantly from those in rainfed croplands in North and South America, while the communities from rainfed croplands in North and South America were similar despite their significant differences in geographic distance. Together with available evidence, our results suggest that soil microbial diversity is controlled primarily by edaphic variables rather than by climate, which differs fundamentally from the global biogeography of macro-organisms. The predominant element of soil properties (soil pH in particular) and the response of particular taxa to changing pH provides insight for the selection of agronomic practice. Agronomic practice and fertilisation may change soil pH and therefore alter soil microbial diversity and composition, which could have an impact on soil nutrient supply in agricultural ecosystems. Significance: Traditional methods may underestimate the microbial diversity. Metagenome analysis using whole genome sequencing allows quantification of the diversity more accurately and characterisation of the function of the mega-diverse soil microbial communities simultaneously. Using metagenome analysis on 141 soil microbial communities collected from global agriculture soil system with 32 from flooded paddies in China and 129 from rain-fed farmland in North and South America. We found that the significant correlation between soil pH and diversity of microbial communities can be extended to soils from different continents, which is fundamentally different from the diversity and community structure of macro-organisms. Moreover, we revealed that land use and cultivation history have shaped the taxonomic and functional composition in the soil microbial community. Our study deepens our understanding of the structure and function of the soil microbial community in general, and have particularly important implications in agricultural practice.	2020	147	10.1016/j.apsoil.2019.103449
Li, X; Wang, HH; Li, X; Li, XY; Zhang, HW	Distribution characteristics of fungal communities with depth in paddy fields of three soil types in China	JOURNAL OF MICROBIOLOGY	Little is known about the distribution of fungal communities with soil depth on relatively large scales. In this study, typical paddy soils in three regions (Hailun, Changshu, and Yingtan) from north to south China were selected to investigate the vertical distribution (0-100 cm) of the fungal community by Illumina MiSeq sequencing, and to identify the main factors influencing the fungal community distribution. The results indicated that the structure of the soil fungal community changed significantly with region and soil depth. Soil fungal taxa such as Zygomycota, Glomeromycota, Saccharomycete, Kazachstania, Mortierella, Massariosphaeria, Hypholoma, and Zopfiella were enriched at depths of 0-20 cm, whereas Dothideomycetes, Microbotryomycetes, Tremellomycetes, Sporobolomyces, Cryptococcus, Rhodotorula, Fusarium, and Pyrenochaetopsis had high relative abundances at 80-100 cm. Variance partitioning analysis indicated that the geographic distance contributed more to the fungal community variation than environmental variables on a large scale. In addition, soil total carbon and nitrogen contents were the main environmental factors driving the vertical distribution of the fungal community in paddy soils.	2020	58	10.1007/s12275-020-9409-8
Donald, J; Roy, M; Suscun, U; Iribar, A; Manzi, S; Pellissier, L; Gaucher, P; Chave, J	A test of community assembly rules using foliar endophytes from a tropical forest canopy	JOURNAL OF ECOLOGY	Community assembly theory assumes that ecological communities are spatially delimited into patches. Within these patches, coexistence results from environmental filtering, competition and immigration. Truly delineated communities exist in laboratory studies of microbial cultures in Petri dishes, yet empirical tests conducted in continuous environments often use patches defined by convention as opposed to realized boundaries. Here we perform a test of ecological community assembly rules using foliar endophyte communities from a tropical rainforest, where leaves are considered as patches for both fungal and bacterial communities. We determined the diversity of fungal and bacterial endophytes using environmental DNA sequencing of 365 top-canopy leaves, collected from 38 host trees belonging to 22 different species across a 4-ha research plot. Three leaves were collected from three or more branches within each tree crown. We tested the effect of host tree species and their level of phylogenetic relatedness on community composition as well as the contribution of geographic distance between leaves to endophyte community diversity. Endophyte diversity significantly differed across host tree species, as did community composition. Within certain endophytic orders (Xylariales, Rhizobiales) species assemblages significantly differed across host tree species, but this trend was weaker or non-existent in other orders known to contain pathogens and saprotrophs (Polyporales, Solirubrobacterales). Phylogenetically related host tree species displayed more similar endophyte communities than expected by chance, but geographically close trees did not. Consistent with the finding of host-specificity, nearby leaves tended to host more similar communities than distantly positioned ones. These findings demonstrate that foliar endophytes are structured by dispersal across small spatial scales, but at the scale of the canopy they display patterns of neutral filtering, with only a small part of variation described by host tree differences. Endophyte communities thus act as a model system in evoking the rules predicted by theoretical community ecology.			10.1111/1365-2745.13344
Easson, CG; Chaves-Fonnegra, A; Thacker, RW; Lopez, JV	Host population genetics and biogeography structure the microbiome of the sponge Cliona delitrix	ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION	Sponges occur across diverse marine biomes and host internal microbial communities that can provide critical ecological functions. While strong patterns of host specificity have been observed consistently in sponge microbiomes, the precise ecological relationships between hosts and their symbiotic microbial communities remain to be fully delineated. In the current study, we investigate the relative roles of host population genetics and biogeography in structuring the microbial communities hosted by the excavating sponge Cliona delitrix. A total of 53 samples, previously used to demarcate the population genetic structure of C. delitrix, were selected from two locations in the Caribbean Sea and from eight locations across the reefs of Florida and the Bahamas. Microbial community diversity and composition were measured using Illumina-based high-throughput sequencing of the 16S rRNA V4 region and related to host population structure and geographic distribution. Most operational taxonomic units (OTUs) specific to Cliona delitrix microbiomes were rare, while other OTUs were shared with congeneric hosts. Across a large regional scale (>1,000 km), geographic distance was associated with considerable variability of the sponge microbiome, suggesting a distance-decay relationship, but little impact over smaller spatial scales (<300 km) was observed. Host population structure had a moderate effect on the structure of these microbial communities, regardless of geographic distance. These results support the interplay between geographic, environmental, and host factors as forces determining the community structure of microbiomes associated with C. delitrix. Moreover, these data suggest that the mechanisms of host regulation can be observed at the population genetic scale, prior to the onset of speciation.	2020	10	10.1002/ece3.6033
Wang, YL; Gao, C; Chen, L; Ji, NN; Wu, BW; Lu, PP; Li, XC; Qian, X; Maitra, P; Babalola, BJ; Zheng, Y; Guo, LD	Community Assembly of Endophytic Fungi in Ectomycorrhizae of Betulaceae Plants at a Regional Scale	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	The interaction between aboveground and belowground biotic communities drives community assembly of plants and soil microbiota. As an important component of belowground microorganisms, root-associated fungi play pivotal roles in biodiversity maintenance and community assembly of host plants. The Betulaceae plants form ectomycorrhizae with soil fungi and widely distribute in various ecosystems. However, the community assembly of endophytic fungi in ectomycorrhizae is less investigated at a large spatial scale. Here, we examined the endophytic fungal communities in ectomycorrhizae of 22 species in four genera belonging to Betulaceae in Chinese forest ecosystems, using Illumina Miseq sequencing of internal transcribed spacer 2 amplicons. The relative contribution of host phylogeny, climate and soil (environmental filtering) and geographic distance (dispersal limitation) on endophytic fungal community was disentangled. In total, 2,106 endophytic fungal operational taxonomic units (OTUs) were obtained at a 97% sequence similarity level, dominated by Leotiomycetes, Agaricomycetes, Eurotiomycetes, and Sordariomycetes. The endophytic fungal OTU richness was significantly related with host phylogeny, geographic distance, soil and climate. The endophytic fungal community composition was significantly affected by host phylogeny (19.5% of variation explained in fungal community), geographic distance (11.2%), soil (6.1%), and climate (1.4%). This finding suggests that environmental filtering by plant and abiotic variables coupled with dispersal limitation linked to geographic distance determines endophytic fungal community assembly in ectomycorrhizae of Betulaceae plants, with host phylogeny being a stronger determinant than other predictor variables at the regional scale.	2020	10	10.3389/fmicb.2019.03105
Ribeiro, KF; Ferrero, AP; Duarte, L; Turchetto-Zolet, AC; Crossetti, LO	Comparative phylogeography of two free-living cosmopolitan cyanobacteria: Insights on biogeographic and latitudinal distribution	JOURNAL OF BIOGEOGRAPHY	Aim Free-living bacteria have long been assumed to have little biogeographic signature because of their high potential for passive dispersal. Raphidiopsis raciborskii and Microcystis aeruginosa are free-living cosmopolitan cyanobacteria with a probable tropical origin, that frequently form toxic blooms and are considered invasive species in middle latitudes. Despite these similarities, their phylogeographic patterns have seldom been directly compared. Our aim was to reconstruct the phylogeographic histories of R. raciborskii and M. aeruginosa, in order to explore whether their current distributions could be attributed to the same biogeographic events. Location Global. Taxa Raphidiopsis raciborskii (Nostocales) and Microcystis aeruginosa (Chroococcales). Methods The phylogeography of these species was studied based on global genetic diversity patterns from a dataset of worldwide 16S rRNA gene sequences. Genetic diversity indices were measured globally and by latitude. Analyses based on distance matrices were performed to evaluate the correlation between genetic divergence, geographic distance and climatic conditions. Demographic history was investigated through neutrality tests and Bayesian Skyline Plot analysis. Results For both species, the genetic diversity is highest in tropical latitudes, and the data provided evidence of recent population expansions (in the last 2,500 years). R. raciborskii showed much lower genetic diversity than M. aeruginosa. A significant phylogeographic structure was found for R. raciborskii but not for M. aeruginosa. Climatic conditions had a significant influence on the genetic structure of both species, but this influence was stronger and varied according to latitude only for R. raciborskii. Main Conclusions Supporting the hypothesis of a tropical origin and recent dispersal to temperate habitats, both species had higher genetic diversity in tropical latitudes and showed evidence of recent population expansions. R. raciborskii populations showed a significant decline in genetic similarity with increasing geographic distance, indicating an interaction between drift and some dispersal limitation on its phylogeography. In contrast, M. aeruginosa seemed to have a high frequency of intercontinental dispersal. Finally, the particularities of each species, such as the ability to form akinetes in R. raciborskii and high genome plasticity and niche specialization in M. aeruginosa, may be associated with the lower genetic diversity of R. raciborskii when compared to M. aeruginosa.			10.1111/jbi.13785
Liu, WW; Zhang, XW; Wu, N; Ren, YD; Wang, XF	High Diversity and Functional Complementation of Alimentary Canal Microbiota Ensure Small Brown Planthopper to Adapt Different Biogeographic Environments	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Almost all insects harbor commensal bacteria in the alimentary canal lumen or within cells and often play a pivotal role in their hosts development, evolution, and environmental adaptation. However, little is known about the alimentary canal microbiota and their functions in sap-sucking insect pests of crops, which can damage plants by removing plant sap and by transmitting various plant viruses, especially in the small brown planthopper, Laodelphax striatellus. In this study, we characterized the alimentary canal microbiota of L. striatellus collected from seven regions in China by sequencing 16S rDNA. The insects harbored a rich diversity of microbes, mainly consisted of bacteria from phyla Proteobacteria, Actinobacteria, Firmicutes, Bacteroidetes, and Tenericutes. The composition and abundance of microbiota were more similar as the geographic distance decreased between the populations and clustered by geographic location into three groups: temperate, subtropical, and tropical populations. Although the abundance and species of microbes differed among the populations, the various major microbes for each population performed similar functions based on a clusters of orthologous group analysis. Greater diversity in ecological factors in different regions might lead to higher microbial diversity, thus enabling L. striatellus to adapt or tolerate various extreme environments to avoid the cost of long-distance migration. Moreover, the abundance of various metabolic functions in the Kaifeng populations might contribute to higher fecundity in L. striatellus.	2020	10	10.3389/fmicb.2019.02953
Grond, K; Bell, KC; Demboski, JR; Santos, M; Sullivan, JM; Hird, SM	No evidence for phylosymbiosis in western chipmunk species	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Phylosymbiosis refers to a congruent pattern between the similarity of microbiomes of different species and the branching pattern of the host phylogeny. Phylosymbiosis has been detected in a variety of vertebrate and invertebrate hosts, but has only been assessed in geographically isolated populations. We tested for phylosymbiosis in eight (sub)species of western chipmunks with overlapping ranges and ecological niches; we used a nuclear (Acrosin) and a mitochondrial (CYTB) phylogenetic marker because there are many instances of mitochondrial introgression in chipmunks. We predicted that similarity among microbiomes increases with: (1) increasing host mitochondrial relatedness, (2) increasing host nuclear genome relatedness and (3) decreasing geographic distance among hosts. We did not find statistical evidence supporting phylosymbiosis in western chipmunks. Furthermore, in contrast to studies of other mammalian microbiomes, similarity of chipmunk microbiomes is not predominantly determined by host species. Sampling site explained most variation in microbiome composition, indicating an important role of local environment in shaping microbiomes. Fecal microbiomes of chipmunks were dominated by Bacteroidetes (72.2%), followed by Firmicutes (24.5%), which is one of the highest abundances of Bacteroidetes detected in wild mammals. Future work will need to elucidate the effects of habitat, ecology and host genomics on chipmunk microbiomes.	2020	96	10.1093/femsec/fiz182
Wang, ZB; Sun, YY; Li, Y; Chen, XL; Wang, P; Ding, HT; Chen, B; Zhang, XY; Song, XY; Wang, M; McMinn, A; Zhang, YZ; Qin, QL	Significant Bacterial Distance-Decay Relationship in Continuous, Well-Connected Southern Ocean Surface Water	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Recently, an increasing number of studies have focused on the biogeographic distribution of marine microorganisms. However, the extent to which geographic distance can affect marine microbial communities is still unclear, especially for the microbial communities in well-connected surface seawaters. In this study, the bacterial community compositions of 21 surface seawater samples, that were distributed over a distance of 7800 km, were surveyed to investigate how bacterial community similarity changes with increasing geographical distance. Proteobacteria and Bacteroidetes were the dominant bacterial phyla, with Proteobacteria accounting for 52.6-92.5% and Bacteroidetes comprising 3.5-46.9% of the bacterial communities. A significant bacterial distance-decay relationship was observed in the well-connected Southern Ocean surface seawater. The number of pairwise shared operational taxonomic units (OTUs), and community similarities tended to decrease with increasing geographic distance. Calculation of the similarity indices with all, abundant or rare OTUs did not affect the observed distance-decay relationship. Spatial distance can largely explain the observed bacterial community variation. This study shows that even in well-connected surface waters, bacterial distance-decay patterns can be found as long as the geographical distance is great enough. The biogeographic patterns should then be present for marine microorganisms considering the large size and complexity of the marine ecosystem.			10.1007/s00248-019-01472-x
Walker, DM; Hill, AJ; Albecker, MA; McCoy, MW; Grisnik, M; Romer, A; Grajal-Puche, A; Camp, C; Kelehear, C; Wooten, J; Rheubert, J; Graham, SP	Variation in the Slimy Salamander (Plethodon spp.) Skin and Gut-Microbial Assemblages Is Explained by Geographic Distance and Host Affinity	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	A multicellular host and its microbial communities are recognized as a metaorganism-a composite unit of evolution. Microbial communities have a variety of positive and negative effects on the host life history, ecology, and evolution. This study used high-throughput amplicon sequencing to characterize the complete skin and gut microbial communities, including both bacteria and fungi, of a terrestrial salamander, Plethodon glutinosus (Family Plethodontidae). We assessed salamander populations, representing nine mitochondrial haplotypes (clades), for differences in microbial assemblages across 13 geographic locations in the Southeastern United States. We hypothesized that microbial assemblages were structured by both host factors and geographic distance. We found a strong correlation between all microbial assemblages at close geographic distances, whereas, as spatial distance increases, the patterns became increasingly discriminate. Network analyses revealed that gut-bacterial communities have the highest degree of connectedness across geographic space. Host salamander clade was explanatory of skin-bacterial and gut-fungal assemblages but not gut-bacterial assemblages, unless the latter were analyzed within a phylogenetic context. We also inferred the function of gut-fungal assemblages to understand how an understudied component of the gut microbiome may influence salamander life history. We concluded that dispersal limitation may in part describe patterns in microbial assemblages across space and also that the salamander host may select for skin and gut communities that are maintained over time in closely related salamander populations.			10.1007/s00248-019-01456-x
Zeng, QC; Jia, PL; Wang, Y; Wang, HL; Li, CC; An, SS	The local environment regulates biogeographic patterns of soil fungal communities on the Loess Plateau	CATENA	Soil fungi play critical ecological roles in terrestrial ecosystem function, soil formation and element cycles. However, the biogeography of soil fungi in the forest ecosystem is poorly understand, especially in arid or semiarid areas. Here, a regional scale study in an arid area was conducted on the Loess Plateau to illustrate the geographic distributions of soil fungi and their driving forces. The results showed that Ascomycota, Basidiomycota and Zygomycota were the most dominant phyla in 24 sample sites. Fungal Shannon diversity and OTUs richness were significantly correlated with mean annual precipitation (MAP), total soil nitrogen (TN), ammonium nitrogen (NH4N) and soil organic carbon (SOC) levels. The decay-curve analysis demonstrated that soil fungal Bray-Cutis dissimilarities were significantly regressed with geographic distance, revealing that the soil fungal community structure was affected by historical factors. Variation partitioning analysis revealed that the soil properties (15%) contributed more to the fungal community variations than geographic distance (9%). Additionally, there were many predictors of soil fungi geography that were not detected. These results suggest that the fungal geography on the Loess Plateau is mainly regulated by soil properties or other unmeasured variables. Such findings advance our understanding of fungal diversity patterns on the Loess Plateau, which will help us better understand the functions and services in underground ecosystems in arid areas.	2019	183	10.1016/j.catena.2019.104220
Cook, KV; Li, C; Cai, HY; Krumholz, LR; Hambright, KD; Paerl, HW; Steffen, MM; Wilson, AE; Burford, MA; Grossart, HP; Hamilton, DP; Jiang, HL; Sukenik, A; Latour, D; Meyer, EI; Padisak, J; Qin, BQ; Zamor, RM; Zhu, GW	The global Microcystis interactome	LIMNOLOGY AND OCEANOGRAPHY	Bacteria play key roles in the function and diversity of aquatic systems, but aside from study of specific bloom systems, little is known about the diversity or biogeography of bacteria associated with harmful cyanobacterial blooms (cyanoHABs). CyanoHAB species are known to shape bacterial community composition and to rely on functions provided by the associated bacteria, leading to the hypothesized cyanoHAB interactome, a coevolved community of synergistic and interacting bacteria species, each necessary for the success of the others. Here, we surveyed the microbiome associated with Microcystis aeruginosa during blooms in 12 lakes spanning four continents as an initial test of the hypothesized Microcystis interactome. We predicted that microbiome composition and functional potential would be similar across blooms globally. Our results, as revealed by 16S rRNA sequence similarity, indicate that M. aeruginosa is cosmopolitan in lakes across a 280 degrees longitudinal and 90 degrees latitudinal gradient. The microbiome communities were represented by a wide range of operational taxonomic units and relative abundances. Highly abundant taxa were more related and shared across most sites and did not vary with geographic distance, thus, like Microcystis, revealing no evidence for dispersal limitation. High phylogenetic relatedness, both within and across lakes, indicates that microbiome bacteria with similar functional potential were associated with all blooms. While Microcystis and the microbiome bacteria shared many genes, whole-community metagenomic analysis revealed a suite of biochemical pathways that could be considered complementary. Our results demonstrate a high degree of similarity across global Microcystis blooms, thereby providing initial support for the hypothesized Microcystis interactome.	2020	65	10.1002/lno.11361
Gomez, MR; Ashman, TL	Floral organs act as environmental filters and interact with pollinators to structure the yellow monkeyflower (Mimulus guttatus) floral microbiome	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	Assembly of microbial communities is the result of neutral and selective processes. However, the relative importance of these processes is still debated. Microbial communities of flowers, in particular, have gained recent attention because of their potential impact to plant fitness and plant-pollinator interactions. However, the role of selection and dispersal in the assembly of these communities remains poorly understood. Here, we evaluated the role of pollinator-mediated dispersal on the contribution of neutral and selective processes in the assembly of floral microbiomes of the yellow monkeyflower (Mimulus guttatus). We sampled floral organs from flowers in the presence and absence of pollinators within five different serpentine seeps in CA and obtained 16S amplicon data on the epiphytic bacterial communities. Consistent with strong microenvironment selection within flowers we observed significant differences in community composition across floral organs and only a small effect of geographic distance. Pollinator exposure affected the contribution of environmental selection and depended on the rate and intimacy of interactions with flower visitors. This study provides evidence of the importance of dispersal and within-flower heterogeneity in shaping epiphytic bacterial communities of flowers, and highlights the complex interplay between pollinator behaviour, environmental selection and additional abiotic factors in shaping the epiphytic bacterial communities of flowers.	2019	28	10.1111/mec.15280
Li, X; Wang, HH; Li, X; Li, XY; Zhang, HW	Shifts in bacterial community composition increase with depth in three soil types from paddy fields in China	PEDOBIOLOGIA	Bacterial community distribution along soil depth gradients is currently poorly understood at the large scale. We selected three typical paddy soils in three regions from north to south in China to investigate the vertical distribution (0-100 cm) of the bacterial community by Illumina MiSeq amplicon sequencing and identify its drivers. Results indicated that the dominant bacterial phyla in paddy soils were Chloroflexi, Acidobacteria, and Proteobacteria. The four diversity indices of the bacterial community all increased at depths of 0-20 cm, then gradually decreased at depths of 20-100 cm. Linear discriminant analysis effect size showed that some bacterial taxa displayed significant differences in relative abundance among different depth gradients. Some bacterial taxa (such as phyla Chloroflexi, Bacteroidetes, and Nitrospirae; classes Alphaproteobacteria, Betaproteobacteria, and Anaerolineae; and genera Candidatus Koribacter and Rhodoplanes) had a high relative abundance at depths of 0-20 cm. Other taxa (belonging to classes Deltaproteobacteria and Gammaproteobacteria and to genera Geobacter and Acinetobacter) had a high relative abundance at depths of 80-100 cm. Non-metric multidimensional scaling analysis indicated that the soil bacterial community structure clearly changed with region and soil depth, and the shifts in bacterial community composition increased with depth in three paddy soils. Variance partitioning analysis showed that geographic distance had more effect on bacterial community distribution than environmental variables in deeper soil (20-100 cm) at a large scale. In addition, distance-based redundancy analysis suggested that soil total carbon and nitrogen contents were strongly associated with the vertical distribution of the bacterial community in paddy soil.	2019	77	10.1016/j.pedobi.2019.150589
Overholt, WA; Schwing, P; Raz, KM; Hastings, D; Hollander, DJ; Kostka, JE	The core seafloor microbiome in the Gulf of Mexico is remarkably consistent and shows evidence of recovery from disturbance caused by major oil spills	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	The microbial ecology of oligotrophic deep ocean sediments is understudied relative to their shallow counterparts, and this lack of understanding hampers our ability to predict responses to current and future perturbations. The Gulf of Mexico has experienced two of the largest accidental marine oil spills, the 1979 Ixtoc-1 blowout and the 2010 Deepwater Horizon (DWH) discharge. Here, microbial communities were characterized for 29 sites across multiple years in >700 samples. The composition of the seafloor microbiome was broadly consistent across the region and was well approximated by the overlying water depth and depth within the sediment column, while geographic distance played a limited role. Biogeographical distributions were employed to generate predictive models for over 4000OTU that leverage easy-to-obtain geospatial variables which are linked to measured sedimentary oxygen profiles. Depth stratification and putative niche diversification are evidenced by the distribution of taxa that mediate the microbial nitrogen cycle. Furthermore, these results demonstrate that sediments impacted by the DWH spill had returned to near baseline conditions after 2years. The distributions of benthic microorganisms in the Gulf can be constrained, and moreover, deviations from these predictions may pinpoint impacted sites and aid in future response efforts or long-term stability studies.	2019	21	10.1111/1462-2920.14794
Yang, J; Jiang, HC; Dong, HL; Liu, YQ	A comprehensive census of lake microbial diversity on a global scale	SCIENCE CHINA-LIFE SCIENCES	Despite recent interest in microbial diversity and community structure of lakes across various spatial scales, a global biogeographic distribution pattern and its controlling factors have not been fully disclosed. Here, we compiled and analyzed 88,334,735 environmental 16S rRNA sequences from 431 lakes across a wide range of geographical distance and environmental conditions (in particular, salinity, 0-373.3 g L-1). Our results showed that lake sediments inhabit significantly (ANOVA: P<0.001) more diverse microbial communities than lake waters. Non-metric dimensional scaling (NMDS) ordinations indicated that microbial community compositions differed distinctly among sample types (freshwater vs. saline, water vs. sediment) and geographic locations. Mantel and partial Mantel tests showed that microbial community composition in lake water was significantly (P=0.001) correlated with geographic distance, salinity, and pH. Statistical analyses based on neutral community and null models indicated that stochastic processes may play predominant roles in shaping the microbial biogeographic distribution patterns in the studied global lake waters. The dispersal-related stochasticity (e.g., homogenizing dispersal) exhibited a stronger influence on the distribution of microbial community in freshwater lakes than in saline lakes. Overall, this work expands our understanding of the impact of geographic distance, environmental conditions, and stochastic processes on microbial distribution in global lakes.	2019	62	10.1007/s11427-018-9525-9
Zhang, XX; Guo, HB; Thin, KK; He, SW; Wang, X	Bacterial community composition shaped by variety and geographic distance in rice seeds	MOLECULAR PLANT-MICROBE INTERACTIONS		2019	32	
Sun, P; Huang, LY; Xu, DP; Warren, A; Huang, BQ; Wang, Y; Wang, L; Xiao, WP; Kong, J	Integrated Space-Time Dataset Reveals High Diversity and Distinct Community Structure of Ciliates in Mesopelagic Waters of the Northern South China Sea	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Little is known about diversity distribution and community structure of ciliates in mesopelagic waters, especially how they are related to spatial and temporal changes. Here, an integrative approach, combining high-throughput cDNA sequencing and quantitative protargol stain, was used to analyze ciliate communities collected temporally along a transect from coastal to oceanic regions at depths ranging from the surface to 1000 m. The mesopelagic zone exhibited comparable alpha diversity to surface water which was consistent over temporal variation, with high diversity occurring at the interface with the euphotic zone. Comparison with the northeastern and the western Pacific Ocean revealed consistency of this vertical distribution of ciliates across oceanic basins. Mesopelagic ciliates harbored distinct community structure without significant seasonal differences, with the vertical variations driven largely by members of the classes Spirotrichea and Oligohymenophorea. Operational taxonomic units (OTUs) affiliated with Scuticociliatia, Astomatida and Apostomatida, members of which are known to be bacterivorous and/or commensal/parasitic species, were more abundant in mesopelagic waters than above, implying they are an important component of food webs in the mesopelagic zone. A combination of depth, geographic distance and environment shaped the ciliate communities, with depth being the most influential factor. Phylogenetic null modeling analysis further indicated that 57.1 and 33.3% of mesopelagic community variation was governed by dispersal limitation and heterogeneous selection, respectively, probably due to the marked biochemical and physical gradients down the water column. This suggests that ciliate community structure in the mesopelagic zone is mainly controlled by stochastic processes. Collectively, this study reports mesopelagic ciliates exhibited high diversity and distinct community structure across spatiotemporal scales and informs the processes mediating ciliate assembly in the mesopelagic zone. These should be fully considered in future studies to build a more comprehensive understanding of mesopelagic microbial assemblages.	2019	10	10.3389/fmicb.2019.02178
Liu, MH; Sui, X; Hu, YB; Feng, FJ	Microbial community structure and the relationship with soil carbon and nitrogen in an original Korean pine forest of Changbai Mountain, China	BMC MICROBIOLOGY	Background The broad-leaved Korean pine mixed forest is an important and typical component of a global temperate forest. Soil microbes are the main driver of biogeochemical cycling in this forest ecosystem and have complex interactions with carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) components in the soil. Results We investigated the vertical soil microbial community structure in a primary Korean pine-broadleaved mixed forest in Changbai Mountain (from 699 to 1177 m) and analyzed the relationship between the microbial community and both C and N components in the soil. The results showed that the total phospholipid fatty acid (PLFA) of soil microbes and Gram-negative bacteria (G-), Gram-positive bacteria (G+), fungi (F), arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF), and Actinomycetes varied significantly (p < 0.05) at different sites (elevations). The ratio of fungal PLFAs to bacterial PLFAs (F/B) was higher at site H1, and H2. The relationship between microbial community composition and geographic distance did not show a distance-decay pattern. The coefficients of variation for bacteria were maximum among different sites (elevations). Total soil organic carbon (TOC), total nitrogen (TN), soil water content (W), and the ratio of breast-height basal area of coniferous trees to that of broad-leaved tree species (RBA) were the main contributors to the variation observed in each subgroup of microbial PLFAs. The structure equation model showed that TOC had a significant direct effect on bacterial biomass and an indirect effect upon bacterial and fungal biomass via soil readily oxidized organic carbon (ROC). No significant relationship was observed between soil N fraction and the biomass of fungi and bacteria. Conclusion The total PLFAs (tPLFA) and PLFAs of soil microbes, including G-, G+, F, AMF, and Actinomycetes, were significantly affected by elevation. Bacteria were more sensitive to changes in elevation than other microbes. Environmental heterogeneity was the main factor affecting the geographical distribution pattern of microbial community structure. TOC, TN, W and RBA were the main driving factors for the change in soil microbial biomass. C fraction was the main factor affecting the biomass of fungi and bacteria and ROC was one of the main sources of the microbial-derived C pool.	2019	19	10.1186/s12866-019-1584-6
Zhao, S; Liu, JJ; Banerjee, SMR; White, AM; Zhou, N; Zhao, ZY; Zhang, K; Hu, MF; Kingsley, KR; Tian, CY	Not by Salinity Alone: How Environmental Factors Shape Fungal Communities in Saline Soils	SOIL SCIENCE SOCIETY OF AMERICA JOURNAL	Soil salinity is prominent in arid and semiarid regions, especially in local agricultural systems. Fungi play major roles in ecosystem processes, but the determinants of fungal diversity and biogeographical patterns in saline agricultural systems remain poorly understood. Here we performed Illumina MiSeq high throughput sequencing of the fungal ITS1 region from 31 soils covering representative saline agricultural lands in northwest China. The results showed that Dothideomycetes, Eurotiomycetes and Sordariomycetes were the dominant taxonomic groups across all soil samples (>5% of all sequences), while saprotroph, pathotroph-saprotroph-symbiotroph and pathotroph were the main functional guilds across all soil samples. Interestingly, the fungal abundance and alpha diversity increased with increasing longitudinal gradient from 84 degrees 13 E to 89 degrees 11 E. Soil moisture, followed by salinity and total potassium, were the primary environmental drivers of the fungal community; these soil parameters were significantly (P < 0.05) correlated with longitude, and therefore potentially result in longitudinal fungal gradients. Furthermore, the fungal community assembly was mainly stochastic; fungal community exhibited distance-decay distribution patterns, which were mainly influenced by geographical distance. By contrast, environmental factors (such as salinity pH, soil moisture, or nutrients) mainly contributed to the variation in trophic guilds. These findings enhance our understanding of fungal biogeography in saline agricultural soils.	2019	83	10.2136/sssaj2019.03.0082
Barge, EG; Leopold, DR; Peay, KG; Newcombe, G; Busby, PE	Differentiating spatial from environmental effects on foliar fungal communities of Populus trichocarpa	JOURNAL OF BIOGEOGRAPHY	Aim Foliar fungi - pathogens, endophytes, epiphytes - form taxonomically diverse communities that affect plant health and productivity. The composition of foliar fungal communities is variable at spatial scales both small (e.g. individual plants) and large (e.g. continents), yet few studies have attempted to tease apart spatial from climatic factors influencing these communities. Moreover, few studies have sampled in more than 1 year to gauge interannual variation in community structure. Location The Pacific Northwest of western North America. Taxon Foliar fungi associated with the deciduous tree Populus trichocarpa. Methods In two consecutive years, we used DNA metabarcoding to characterize foliar fungal communities of Populus trichocarpa across its geographic range, which encompasses a sharp climatic transition as it crosses the Cascade Mountain Range. We used multivariate analyses to (a) test for and differentiate spatial and environmental factors affecting community composition and (b) test for temporal variation in community composition across spatial and environmental gradients. Results In both study years, we found that foliar fungal community composition varied among sites and between regions (east vs. west of the Cascades). We found that climate explained more variation in community composition than geographic distance, although the majority of variation explained by each was shared. We also found that interannual variation in community composition depended on environmental context: communities located in the dry, eastern portion of the trees geographic range varied more between study years than those located in the wet, western portion of the trees range. Main conclusions Our results suggest that the environment plays a greater role in structuring foliar fungal communities than dispersal limitation.	2019	46	10.1111/jbi.13641
Perez-Fernandez, CA; Iriarte, M; Rivera-Perez, J; Tremblay, RL; Toranzos, GA	Microbiota dispersion in the Uyuni salt flat (Bolivia) as determined by community structure analyses	INTERNATIONAL MICROBIOLOGY	Soil microbial communities are an important component of biological diversity and terrestrial ecosystems which is responsible for processes such as decomposition, mineralization of nutrients, and accumulation of organic matter. One of the factors that provide information on the mechanisms regulating biodiversity is spatial scaling. We characterized the microbial communities using 16S rRNA gene sequences from DNA isolated from halite at various locations and correlated these to geographic distance in the Uyuni salt flat (Bolivia). Sequences from each site were analyzed to determine any spatial patterns of diversity, as well as to describe the microbial communities. Results suggest that different taxa are able to disperse over Uyunis surface crust regardless of distance. As expected, ubiquitous taxa included members of Halobacteriaceae such as Haloarcula, Halorubrum, Halorhabdus, Halolamina, and halophilic bacteria Salinibacter, Halorhodospira, and unclassified members of the Gammaproteobacteria. Archaeal communities were homogeneous across the salt flat. In contrast, bacterial communities present strong local variations which could be attributed to external factors. Likely sources for these variations are the Rio Grande river influent in the south shore and the Tunupa volcano influencing the northern area.	2019	22	10.1007/s10123-018-00052-2
Zeng, QC; An, SS; Liu, Y; Wang, HL; Wang, Y	Biogeography and the driving factors affecting forest soil bacteria in an arid area	SCIENCE OF THE TOTAL ENVIRONMENT	Bacteria are one of the most abundant and diverse groups and mediate many critical terrestrial ecosystem processes. Despite the crucial ecological role of bacteria, our understanding of their large-scale biogeography patterns across longitude (east-west transect), and the processes that determine these patterns lags significantly behind that of macro-organisms. Here, we used 16S rRNA gene sequencing to evaluate the geographic distributions of bacterial diversity and their driving factors across different longitude sites along an 800-km east-west transect in the Loess Plateau. Twenty-four phyla were detected across all soil samples and the most sequence-abundant bacterial phyla were Acidobacteria, Actinobacteria, Alphaproteobacteria, Betaproteobacteria, Chloroflexi and Gemmatimonadetes (average relative abundance >5%). Soil bacterial a-diversity, expressed by the richness of soil bacterial communities and Shannon diversity, differed among climates (MAP) but showed strong correlations with MAP (r = -0.537 and r = -0.42, respectively: p < 0.05 in both bacterial diversity indices). Variation partition analysis demonstrated that the bacterial community structure was closely correlated with environmental variables and geographic distance, which together explained 62% of the community variation. Soil properties contributed more to bacterial community variation than the combined geographic distance (historical contingencies) and climate factors. Among all environmental factors, soil pH exhibited a dominant role in structuring bacterial communities in this arid area. Our findings provide new evidence of bacterial biogeography patterns in an arid area (MAP ranged from 473 mm to 547 mm). Additionally, the results indicated a close linkage among soil bacterial community, climate and edaphic variables, which is critical for predicting promoting sustainable ecosystem services in the Loess Plateau. (C) 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2019	680	10.1016/j.scitotenv.2019.04.184
Greenlon, A; Chang, PL; Damtew, ZM; Muleta, A; Carrasquilla-Garcia, N; Kim, D; Nguyen, HP; Suryawanshi, V; Krieg, CP; Yadav, SK; Patel, JS; Mukherjee, A; Udupa, S; Benjelloun, I; Thami-Alami, I; Yasin, M; Patil, B; Singh, S; Sarma, BK; von Wettberg, EJB; Kahraman, A; Bukun, B; Assefa, F; Tesfaye, K; Fikre, A; Cook, DR	Global-level population genomics reveals differential effects of geography and phylogeny on horizontal gene transfer in soil bacteria	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	Although microorganisms are known to dominate Earths biospheres and drive biogeochemical cycling, little is known about the geographic distributions of microbial populations or the environmental factors that pattern those distributions. We used a global-level hierarchical sampling scheme to comprehensively characterize the evolutionary relationships and distributional limitations of the nitrogen-fixing bacterial symbionts of the crop chickpea, generating 1,027 draft whole-genome sequences at the level of bacterial populations, including 14 high-quality PacBio genomes from a phylogenetically representative subset. We find that diverse Mesorhizobium taxa perform symbiosis with chickpea and have largely overlapping global distributions. However, sampled locations cluster based on the phylogenetic diversity of Mesorhizobium populations, and diversity clusters correspond to edaphic and environmental factors, primarily soil type and latitude. Despite long-standing evolutionary divergence and geographic isolation, the diverse taxa observed to nodulate chickpea share a set of integrative conjugative elements (ICEs) that encode the major functions of the symbiosis. This symbiosis ICE takes 2 forms in the bacterial chromosome-tripartite and monopartite-with tripartite ICEs confined to a broadly distributed superspecies Glade. The pairwise evolutionary relatedness of these elements is controlled as much by geographic distance as by the evolutionary relatedness of the background genome. In contrast, diversity in the broader gene content of Mesorhizobium genomes follows a tight linear relationship with core genome phylogenetic distance, with little detectable effect of geography. These results illustrate how geography and demography can operate differentially on the evolution of bacterial genomes and offer useful insights for the development of improved technologies for sustainable agriculture.	2019	116	10.1073/pnas.1900056116
Vimercati, L; Darcy, JL; Schmidt, SK	The disappearing periglacial ecosystem atop Mt. Kilimanjaro supports both cosmopolitan and endemic microbial communities	SCIENTIFIC REPORTS	Microbial communities have not been studied using molecular approaches at high elevations on the African continent. Here we describe the diversity of microbial communities from ice and periglacial soils from near the summit of Mt. Kilimanjaro by using both Illumina and Sanger sequencing of 16S and 18S rRNA genes. Ice and periglacial soils contain unexpectedly diverse and rich assemblages of Bacteria and Eukarya indicating that there may be high rates of dispersal to the top of this tropical mountain and/or that the habitat is more conducive to microbial life than was previously thought. Most bacterial OTUs are cosmopolitan and an analysis of isolation by geographic distance patterns of the genus Polaromonas emphasized the importance of global Aeolian transport in the assembly of bacterial communities on Kilimanjaro. The eukaryotic communities were less diverse than the bacterial communities and showed more evidence of dispersal limitations and apparent endemism. Cercozoa dominated the 18S communities, including a high abundance of testate amoebae and a high diversity of endemic OT Us within the Vampyrellida. These results argue for more intense study of this unique high-elevation island of the cryosphere before the glaciers of Kilimanjaro disappear forever.	2019	9	10.1038/s41598-019-46521-0
Reintjes, G; Tegetmeyer, HE; Burgisser, M; Orlic, S; Tews, I; Zubkov, M; Voss, D; Zielinski, O; Quast, C; Glockner, FO; Amann, R; Ferdelman, TG; Fuchs, BM	On-Site Analysis of Bacterial Communities of the Ultraoligotrophic South Pacific Gyre	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	The South Pacific Gyre (SPG) covers 10% of the oceans surface and is often regarded as a marine biological desert. To gain an on-site overview of the remote, ultraoligotrophic microbial community of the SPG, we developed a novel on-board analysis pipeline, which combines next-generation sequencing with fluorescence in situ hybridization and automated cell enumeration. We tested the pipeline during the SO-245 UltraPac cruise from Chile to New Zealand and found that the overall microbial community of the SPG was highly similar to those of other oceanic gyres. The SPG was dominated by 20 major bacterial clades, including SAR11, SAR116, the AEGEAN-169 marine group, SAR86, Prochlorococcus, SAR324, SAR406, and SAR202. Most of the bacterial clades showed a strong vertical (20m to 5,000 m), but only a weak longitudinal (80 degrees W to 160 degrees W), distribution pattern. Surprisingly, in the central gyre, Prochlorococcus, the dominant photosynthetic organism, had only low cellular abundances in the upper waters (20 to 80 m) and was more frequent around the 1% irradiance zone (100 to 150 m). Instead, the surface waters of the central gyre were dominated by the SAR11, SAR86, and SAR116 clades known to harbor light-driven proton pumps. The alphaproteobacterial AEGEAN-169 marine group was particularly abundant in the surface waters of the central gyre, indicating a potentially interesting adaptation to ultraoligotrophic waters and high solar irradiance. In the future, the newly developed community analysis pipeline will allow for on-site insights into a microbial community within 35 h of sampling, which will permit more targeted sampling efforts and hypothesis-driven research. IMPORTANCE The South Pacific Gyre, due to its vast size and remoteness, is one of the least-studied oceanic regions on earth. However, both remote sensing and in situ measurements indicated that the activity of its microbial community contributes significantly to global biogeochemical cycles. Presented here is an unparalleled investigation of the microbial community of the SPG from 20- to 5,000-m depths covering a geographic distance of similar to 7,000 km. This insight was achieved through the development of a novel on-board analysis pipeline, which combines next-generation sequencing with fluorescence in situ hybridization and automated cell enumeration. The pipeline is well comparable to onshore systems based on the Illumina platforms and yields microbial community data in less than 35 h after sampling. Going forward, the ability to gain on-site knowledge of a remote microbial community will permit hypothesis-driven research, through the generation of novel scientific questions and subsequent additional targeted sampling efforts.	2019	85	10.1128/AEM.00184-19
Machado, KB; Targueta, CP; Antunes, AM; Soares, TN; Telles, MPD; Logares, R; Vieira, LCG; Huszar, VLD; Nabout, JC	Diversity patterns of planktonic microeukaryote communities in tropical floodplain lakes based on 18S rDNA gene sequences	JOURNAL OF PLANKTON RESEARCH	The aquatic microbiota plays key roles in ecosystem processes; however, the mechanisms that influence their biogeographic patterns are not yet fully understood. Using high-throughput 18S rDNA gene sequencing, we investigated the composition of planktonic microeukaryotes (organisms sampled using a 68-mu m plankton net) in 27 floodplain lakes of the Araguaia River, central Brazil and explored the influence of environmental and spatial factors for communities considering taxonomic and trophic groups. Of the 807 operational taxonomic units (OTUs) observed, Chlorophyta and Charophyta were the groups with greater abundance. Beta diversity was high, and the similarity of communities decreased as the geographic distance increased. We found a shared explanation between environmental and spatial predictors for total and autotrophic microbiota. Environmental variables influence only mixotrophic microbiota. These results suggest an OTU turnover along the floodplain and a spatially structured composition. This spatial pattern can be derived from the association with extrinsic factors, such as spatially structured environmental variables, that generate spatial dependence. However, the relationship between the composition of microbiota and environmental conditions is still unclear.	2019	41	10.1093/plankt/fbz019
Ji, NN; Gao, C; Sandel, B; Zheng, Y; Chen, L; Wu, BW; Li, XC; Wang, YL; Lu, PP; Sun, X; Guo, LD	Late Quaternary climate change explains soil fungal community composition rather than fungal richness in forest ecosystems	ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION	The dramatic climate fluctuations of the late Quaternary have influenced the diversity and composition of macroorganism communities, but how they structure belowground microbial communities is less well known. Fungi constitute an important component of soil microorganism communities. They play an important role in biodiversity maintenance, community assembly, and ecosystem functioning, and differ from many macroorganisms in many traits. Here, we examined soil fungal communities in Chinese temperate, subtropical, and tropic forests using Illumina MiSeq sequencing of the fungal ITS1 region. The relative effect of late Quaternary climate change and contemporary environment (plant, soil, current climate, and geographic distance) on the soil fungal community was analyzed. The richness of the total fungal community, along with saprotrophic, ectomycorrhizal (EM), and pathogenic fungal communities, was influenced primarily by the contemporary environment (plant and/or soil) but not by late Quaternary climate change. Late Quaternary climate change acted in concert with the contemporary environment to shape total, saprotrophic, EM, and pathogenic fungal community compositions and with a stronger effect in temperate forest than in tropic-subtropical forest ecosystems. Some contemporary environmental factors influencing total, saprotrophic, EM, and pathogenic fungal communities in temperate and tropic-subtropical forests were different. We demonstrate that late Quaternary climate change can help to explain current soil fungal community composition and argue that climatic legacies can help to predict soil fungal responses to climate change.	2019	9	10.1002/ece3.5247
Zhang, J; Tian, HM; Wang, PC; Xiao, QQ; Zhu, SJ; Jian, HK	Variations in pH significantly affect cadmium uptake in grafted muskmelon (Cucumis melo L.) plants and drive the diversity of bacterial communities in a seedling substrate	PLANT PHYSIOLOGY AND BIOCHEMISTRY	Substrates are fundamental prerequisites for growing grafted seedlings. In this study, substrates with different pH levels (5.0, 5.5, 6.0, 6.5, 7.0, and 8.0) were set up to elucidate the effect of pH on cadmium (Cd) uptake in grafted muskmelon (Cucumis melo L.) plants. Bacterial diversity was also investigated. Results showed that pH and high Cd concentration greatly affected the growth of grafted plants. The chlorophyll content of the muskmelon leaves decreased at 100 mu M Cd. The majority of the Cd ions accumulated in the rootstock rather than in the shoot tissue in all of the treatments. The shoots and roots showed the highest Cd content at pH 5.5 and the lowest Cd content at pH 8.0 regardless of the Cd concentration. The operational taxonomic units belonging to Proteobacteria and Bacteroidetes were significantly (p < 0.05) enriched at different substrate pH levels compared with those at pH 5.0. The operational taxonomic units belonging to the phyla Firmicutes, Acidobacteria, and Chloroflexi were significantly decreased The available nitrogen, phosphorus, Cd, and pH were strongly linked to bacterial community compositions. On the contrary, the available potassium was weakly correlated with the bacterial structure. This study demonstrates that pH greatly affects Cd uptake in grafted muskmelon plants and predicts microbial community structures in breeding substrates with different pH levels. Our results suggest that Cd accumulation in grafted plants can be reduced by setting the appropriate substrate pH. This work can serve as a reference for growing high-quality grafted plants and ensuring food safety in the presence of Cd contamination.	2019	139	10.1016/j.plaphy.2019.03.013
Erikstad, HA; Ceballos, RM; Smestad, NB; Birkeland, NK	Global Biogeographic Distribution Patterns of Thermoacidophilic Verrucomicrobia Methanotrophs Suggest Allopatric Evolution	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Thermoacidophilic methane-oxidizing Verrucomicrobia of the candidate genus Methylacidiphilum represent a bacterial taxon adapted to highly acidic (pH 1-4) and moderate temperature (similar to 65 degrees C) methane-containing geothermal environments. Their apparent ubiquity in acidic terrestrial volcanic areas makes them ideal model organisms to study prokaryotic biogeography. Three Methylacidiphilum species isolated from distantly-separated geothermal regions in Russia, New Zealand, and Italy were previously described. We have explored the intra-taxon phylogenetic patterns of these organisms based on comparative genome analyses and phenotypic comparisons with six new Verrucomicrobia methanotroph isolates from other globally-separated acidic geothermal locations. Comparison of rRNA and particulate methane monooxygenase (pmoCAB) operon sequences indicates a close phylogenetic relationship among the new isolates as well as with the previously characterized strains. All share similar cell morphology including the presence of extensive intracellular inclusion bodies and lack of intracellular membrane systems, which are typical for proteobacterial methanotrophs. However, genome sequence comparisons and concatenated MLST-based phylogenetic analyses separate the new isolates into three distinct species-level groups. Three recently processed isolates from the Azores (each from geographically-separate hot springs within the region) and a single isolate from Iceland are highly similar, sharing more than 88% in silk genome homology with each other as well as with the previous isolate, Methylacidiphilum fumariolicum strain SoIV, from Italy. These appear to constitute a distinct European/Atlantic Glade. However, two of the new isolates - one from the Yellowstone National Park (United States) and another from The Philippines - constitute separate and novel Methylacidiphilum species. There is no clear correlation between fatty acid profiles and geographic distance between origins, or any phylogenetic relationship. Serological analysis using antiserum raised against M. kamchatkense strain Kam 1 revealed large differences in the degree of cross-reactivity with no correlation with other factors. However, the genetic distance between the strains does correlate to the distance between their geographic origins and suggests a global biogeographic pattern shaped by an isolation-by-distance mechanism. These results further confirm terrestrial geothermal springs as isolated islands featuring allopatric prokaryotic speciation.	2019	10	10.3389/fmicb.2019.01129
Monchamp, ME; Spaalc, P; Pomati, F	High dispersal levels and lake warming are emergent drivers of cyanobacterial community assembly in peri-Alpine lakes	SCIENTIFIC REPORTS	Disentangling the relative importance of deterministic and stochastic processes in shaping natural communities is central to ecology. Studies about community assembly over broad temporal and spatial scales in aquatic microorganisms are scarce. Here, we used 165 rDNA sequence data from lake sediments to test for community assembly patterns in cyanobacterial phylogenies across ten European peri-Alpine lakes and over a century of eutrophication and climate warming. We studied phylogenetic similarity in cyanobacterial assemblages over spatial and temporal distance, and over environmental gradients, comparing detected patterns with theoretical expectations from deterministic and stochastic processes. We found limited evidence for deviation of lake communities from a random assembly model and no significant effects of geographic distance on phylogenetic similarity, suggesting no dispersal limitation and high levels of stochastic assembly. We detected a weak influence of phosphorus, but no significant effect of nitrogen levels on deviation of community phylogenies from random. We found however a significant decay of phylogenetic similarity for non-random communities over a gradient of air temperature and water column stability. We show how phylogenetic data from sedimentary archives can improve our understanding of microbial community assembly processes, and support previous evidence that climate warming has been the strongest environmental driver of cyanobacterial community assembly over the past century.	2019	9	10.1038/s41598-019-43814-2
Chen, J; Wang, PF; Wang, C; Wang, X; Miao, LZ; Liu, S; Yuan, QS	Dam construction alters function and community composition of diazotrophs in riparian soils across an environmental gradient	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	Dam construction significantly influences riparian ecological functions and environmental conditions in the reservoir region. Despite the importance of diazotrophic mediation of nitrogen cycling in riparian ecosystems, knowledge concerning the impacts of dam construction on diazotrophic function and community composition remains very limited. Here, riparian soils were collected from control sites and dam-affected sites located in six cascade dam-formed reservoirs on the Lancang River, China. Diazotrophic activity was assessed by measuring nitrogen fixation rate, while bacterial abundance and community composition were determined with the n(tH gene, using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction and MiSeq sequencing, respectively. The results indicate that the activity, abundance, and a-diversity of diazotrophs in the affected sites were significantly higher than those in the control sites. The diazotrophic community composition was differed between the control and affected sites, with the latter showing significantly lower community dissimilarity than the control. Both geographic distance and environmental heterogeneity varied in the diazotrophic community, while environmental heterogeneity was the primary factor controlling diazotrophic assemblage in riparian soils, especially at the affected sites. Moreover, co-occurrence network analyses revealed a much higher possible network connectivity at the affected sites than at the control sites. This study suggests distinct activity, abundance, distribution pattern, and network structure of the diazotrophic populations in riparian soils between dam-affected and control sites; thus, providing a novel insight into the potential ecological effects of dam construction on nitrogen cycling.	2019	132	10.1016/j.soilbio.2019.01.020
Liu, D; Wang, HL; An, SS; Bhople, P; Davlatbekov, F	Geographic distance and soil microbial biomass carbon drive biogeographical distribution of fungal communities in Chinese Loess Plateau soils	SCIENCE OF THE TOTAL ENVIRONMENT	Fungi are ecological drivers of carbon cycle in soils and also effectively mediate mineral nutrition for plants especially in the severely eroded Loess Plateau of China. However, factors determining variations in fungal diversity and their biogeographic patterns in this rigorously affected landscape area remain poorly understood. Therefore, we performed Illumina MiSeq high throughput sequencing of the fungal specific, internal transcribed spacer 2 (ITS2) region from 24 representative soils covering forest, grassland and agricultural lands from 8 distinct landscapes. Using this technique, we demonstrate that fungal members belonging to phylum Ascomycota dominated in all soils investigated in this study with an average relative abundance higher than 80%. High fungal richness in the Loess Plateau soils is ascribed to the retrieval of 1,822,499 quality sequences belonging to 13,533 different phylotypes. However, this richness/phylotype number decreased (from 779 to 561) with increasing longitudinal gradient through 107 degrees 39 to 109 degrees 36. Interestingly, higher fungal diversity (in terms of presence of diverse fungal taxa) occurred as microbial biomass carbon (MBC) concentration decreased (approximately from 500 to 100 mg kg(-1)) in soils. Variation partitioning analysis revealed that geographic distance contributed more to fungal community variation (38.3%) than soil properties (22.2%) at the landscape level (similar to 400 km). As indicated by non-metric multidimensional scaling (NMDS), among soil properties, concentrations of MBC primarily affected (significantly corrected with NMDS 1; r = 0.620; p < 0.01) fungal community structure in the current study. This study therefore constitutes an essential set of information and recommends usage of information on fungal community structure as a potential ecological indicator of the Loess Plateau region. (C) 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2019	660	10.1016/j.scitotenv.2019.01.097
Liu, Y; Debeljak, P; Rembauville, M; Blain, S; Obernosterer, I	Diatoms shape the biogeography of heterotrophic prokaryotes in early spring in the Southern Ocean	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	The interplay among microorganisms profoundly impacts biogeochemical cycles in the ocean. Culture-based work has illustrated the diversity of diatom-prokaryote interactions, but the question of whether these associations can affect the spatial distribution of microbial communities is open. Here, we investigated the relationship between assemblages of diatoms and of heterotrophic prokaryotes in surface waters of the Indian sector of the Southern Ocean in early spring. The community composition of diatoms and that of total and active prokaryotes were different among the major ocean zones investigated. We found significant relationships between compositional changes of diatoms and of prokaryotes. In contrast, spatial changes in the prokaryotic community composition were not related to geographic distance and to environmental parameters when the effect of diatoms was accounted for. Diatoms explained 30% of the variance in both the total and the active prokaryotic community composition in early spring in the Southern Ocean. Using co-occurrence analyses, we identified a large number of highly significant correlations between abundant diatom species and prokaryotic taxa. Our results show that key diatom species of the Southern Ocean are each associated with a distinct prokaryotic community, suggesting that diatom assemblages contribute to shaping the habitat type for heterotrophic prokaryotes.	2019	21	10.1111/1462-2920.14579
Hu, YJ; Veresoglou, SD; Tedersoo, L; Xu, TL; Ge, TD; Liu, L; Chen, YL; Hao, ZP; Su, YR; Rillig, MC; Chen, BD	Contrasting latitudinal diversity and co-occurrence patterns of soil fungi and plants in forest ecosystems	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	The diversity patterns of plants at large scale are broadly documented, but that of soil fungi remains elusive. Limited reports on soil fungal biogeography mainly are based on species richness. We carried out a large-scale field investigation on soil fungi originating from 365 forest plots covering five climate zones in China. We tested whether and to what degree a range of different fungal diversity estimates are subject to latitudinal constraints and compared co-occurrence patterns of plants and soil fungi. We found that alpha diversity of plants increased towards lower latitude, while that of soil fungi only tended to increase. Abiotic but not biotic factors controlled fungal alpha diversity. Multiple-site and pairwise beta diversity of soil fungi were closely linked to plant communities. Null model revealed an increasing interaction strength between plant species, while there was a hump-shaped pattern of interaction strength between fungal species from high-latitude towards low-latitude. Our results allow a deeper insight into the multidimensional distribution of soil fungal diversity and reveal contrasting co-occurrence patterns between soil fungi and plants along a latitude gradient, highlighting the need for more inclusive theories to explain these disparities between micro- and macroorganism communities.	2019	131	10.1016/j.soilbio.2019.01.001
Lin, YT; Lin, YF; Tsai, IJ; Chang, EH; Jien, SH; Lin, YJ; Chiu, CY	Structure and Diversity of Soil Bacterial Communities in Offshore Islands	SCIENTIFIC REPORTS	The effects of biogeographical separation and parent material differences in soil bacterial structure and diversity in offshore islands remain poorly understood. In the current study, we used next-generation sequencing to characterize the differences in soil bacterial communities in five offshore subtropical granite islands (Matsu Islets, MI) of mainland China and two offshore tropical andesite islands (Orchid [OI] and Green Islands [GI]) of Taiwan. The soils of OI and GI were more acidic and had higher organic carbon and total nitrogen content than MI soils. The bacterial communities were dominated by Acidobacteria and Proteobacteria but had different relative abundance because soils were derived from different parent material and because of geographic distance. Non-metric multi-dimensional scaling revealed that the communities formed different clusters among different parent material and geographically distributed soils. The alpha-diversity in bacterial communities was higher in tropical than subtropical soils. Mantel test and redundancy analysis indicated that bacterial diversity and compositions of OI and GI soils, respectively, were positively correlated with soil pH, organic carbon, total nitrogen, microbial biomass carbon and nitrogen. These results suggest that variations in soil properties of offshore islands could result from differences in soil parent material. Distinct soils derived from different parent material and geographic distance could in turn alter the bacterial communities.	2019	9	10.1038/s41598-019-41170-9
Cui, YX; Bing, HJ; Fang, LC; Wu, YH; Yu, JL; Shen, GT; Jiang, M; Wang, X; Zhang, XC	Diversity patterns of the rhizosphere and bulk soil microbial communities along an altitudinal gradient in an alpine ecosystem of the eastern Tibetan Plateau	GEODERMA	The diversity patterns and drivers of soil microbial communities in altitudinal gradients have recently received much attention. The rhizosphere is a focus of soil microbial communities, but the patterns and drivers of these communities have rarely been studied in alpine ecosystems. We used high-throughput Illumina sequencing to examine the community variations of bacteria, archaea and fungi between the rhizosphere and bulk soil along an altitudinal gradient in an Abies fabri (Mast.) community on Mount Gongga of the eastern Tibetan Plateau. Microbial alpha diversity and community structure varied significantly with altitude but not between the rhizosphere and bulk soil. Soil temperature and the carbon:nitrogen ratio were the primary drivers of the structures of the bacterial, archaeal and fungal communities, and altitude (geographic distance) contributed a small part (< 3%) of the community variation, indicating that various edaphic factors were the key regulators of microbial community variation. This consistency of the microbial communities between the rhizosphere and bulk soil in this alpine ecosystem could be attributed to low temperature and high nutrient content. The bacterial, archaeal and fungal communities were governed by specific environmental factors (total phosphorus content for bacteria; organic-carbon content, dissolved organic-carbon content, NH4+-N content and nutrient stoichiometry for archaea and NO3--N content for fungi). The distinct environmental responses of the microbial taxa suggested metabolic separation and resource preferences of the belowground communities, even within the small-scale spatial distances in this alpine ecosystem. Our study suggested that the ecosystem harbored many microbial taxa with diverse nutrient preferences and metabolic characteristics and could thus potentially tolerate the soil environmental variation under a scenario of climate change.	2019	338	10.1016/j.geoderma.2018.11.047
Wang, P; Zhao, J; Xiao, HY; Yang, WJ; Yu, XF	Bacterial community composition shaped by water chemistry and geographic distance in an anthropogenically disturbed river	SCIENCE OF THE TOTAL ENVIRONMENT	Core bacterial communities, bacterial species that are found consistently throughout a river continuum, have previously been identified. However, variations in core and non-core bacterial community structure, as well as the relationships between these communities and water chemistry or geographic distance have not been well studied. Here, we sampled in the entire course of the Lean River, China, and explored the bacterial community composition at each site using Illumina high-throughput sequencing. The proportion of sequence reads assigned to the core community was similar to 95% in the upper and middle reaches, gradually decreasing below 90% in the lower reaches. Both the Chao1 richness index and the Shannon diversity index of the bacterial communities were significantly higher in the wet season than in the dry season, and both indices increased slightly from upstream to downstream. The variation in the non-core community was more aggregated from upstream to downstream in the wet season than in the dry season, while the aggregation of the core community was similar between the dry season and the wet season. The proportion of typical freshwater bacterial was significantly higher in the core community than in the non-core community. NO3--N was the subset of water chemistry parameters that best explained bacterial community dissimilarities, while river length was the subset of geographic distance parameters that best explained bacterial community dissimilarities. Water chemistry parameters explained more of the variations in the bacterial communities than did geographic distance, especially in the dry season. However, the correlation betweenwater chemistry and bacteriawas primarily due to collective allochthonous input (mass effects), not because of any nutritious or toxic effects on bacterial growth competition (species sorting). The greater influence of the mass effects, as compared to species sorting, on bacterial community structure was due to the allochthonous input of bacteria from anthropogenic sources. (c) 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2019	655	10.1016/j.scitotenv.2018.11.234
Wang, XB; Yao, J; Zhang, HY; Wang, XG; Li, KH; Lu, XT; Wang, ZW; Zhou, JZ; Han, XG	Environmental and spatial variables determine the taxonomic but not functional structure patterns of microbial communities in alpine grasslands	SCIENCE OF THE TOTAL ENVIRONMENT	There is considerable debate regarding how the taxonomic diversity of microbial communities relates to the functional diversity across space while similar questions have been explored in macro-organism communities. Here, we investigated the taxonomic and functional diversity patterns of soil microbial communities by coupling the data obtained from marker genes sequencing and functional gene surveys. Meanwhile, we evaluated the relative effects of environment and geographic distance on shaping these patterns in alpine grasslands of northern China. Although the taxonomic diversity and composition of microbial communities varied across sites, we found no consistent changes in the functional structure. Both the environmental factors and geographic distance concurrently affected the taxonomic diversity patterns but they had no effects on the spatial variations in functional genes. The functional alpha diversity was weakly correlated to the taxonomic alpha diversity across sites. Moreover, we found no significant relationship between the taxonomic and functional composition similarity among microbial communities. Together, our results provide evidence that spatial variation in microbial functions could be independent of their variations in taxonomic diversity. Even the drivers of spatial variations in the functional structure could be totally different from those of taxonomic variations such as environmental differences and dispersal limitation. Our findings suggest that spatial variations of microbial function structure within a community would not follow the variations of taxonomic structures due to different drivers between both of them over space. (C) 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2019	654	10.1016/j.scitotenv.2018.11.138
Wu, M; Zhang, JW; Bao, YY; Liu, M; Jiang, CY; Feng, YZ; Li, ZP	Long-term fertilization decreases chemical composition variation of soil humic substance across geographic distances in subtropical China	SOIL & TILLAGE RESEARCH	Many previous research have investigated the spatial distribution of the content of soil organic matter (SOM) and soil humic substance (HS), while few work focused on the chemical composition variation of HS across geographic distance. Paddy soils, collected from different long-term fertilization treatments across a wide geographic area in subtropical China, were used to evaluate the spatial variation of HS chemical composition. The 3 dimensional fluorescence spectroscopy combined with parallel factor analysis was used to evaluate the chemical composition of the soil extractable humic substance (EHS, including humic acid and fulvic acid). Analysis of distance-decay relationship (DDR) was introduced here to study the spatial variation of the chemical compositions of these EHSs. It was found that geographic location impose greater impact on the compositional variation of soil EHS than fertilization practice. Fertilization treatments including NPK (mineral N, P and K fertilizers) and NPKS (NPK fertilizers plus straw return) exhibited significant flattened DDR slopes as compared to CK (no fertilizers), which indicated fertilization (NPK and NPKS) decreased the variation of EHS chemical composition in paddy soils across geographic distance. A positive correlation was found between variations of soil bacterial community and EHS chemical composition, and fertilization (NPK and NPKS) enhanced their relationships. This work demonstrated that although the geographic location mainly dominated the spatial variation of the soil EHS chemical composition across geographic distance, the same long-term fertilization practice could gradually domesticate the paddy soils to display more similar EHS composition.	2019	186	10.1016/j.still.2018.10.014
Hanson, CA; Muller, AL; Loy, A; Dona, C; Appel, R; Jorgensen, BB; Hubert, CRJ	Historical Factors Associated With Past Environments Influence the Biogeography of Thermophilic Endospores in Arctic Marine Sediments	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Selection by the local, contemporary environment plays a prominent role in shaping the biogeography of microbes. However, the importance of historical factors in microbial biogeography is more debatable. Historical factors include past ecological and evolutionary circumstances that may have influenced present-day microbial diversity, such as dispersal and past environmental conditions. Diverse thermophilic sulfate-reducing Desulfotomaculum are present as dormant endospores in marine sediments worldwide where temperatures are too low to support their growth. Therefore, they are dispersed to here from elsewhere, presumably a hot, anoxic habitat. While dispersal through ocean currents must influence their distribution in cold marine sediments, it is not clear whether even earlier historical factors, related to the source habitat where these organisms were once active, also have an effect. We investigated whether these historical factors may have influenced the diversity and distribution of thermophilic endospores by comparing their diversity in 10 Arctic fjord surface sediments. Although community composition varied spatially, clear biogeographic patterns were only evident at a high level of taxonomic resolution (> 97% sequence similarity of the 16S rRNA gene) achieved with oligotyping. In particular, the diversity and distribution of oligotypes differed for the two most prominent OTUs (defined using a standard 97% similarity cutoff). One OTU was dominated by a single ubiquitous oligotype, while the other OTU consisted of ten more spatially localized oligotypes that decreased in compositional similarity with geographic distance. These patterns are consistent with differences in historical factors that occurred when and where the taxa were once active, prior to sporulation. Further, the influence of history on biogeographic patterns was only revealed by analyzing microdiversity within OTUs, suggesting that populations within standard OTU-level groupings do not necessarily share a common ecological and evolutionary history.	2019	10	10.3389/fmicb.2019.00245
Dorman, HE; Wallace, LE	Diversity of Nitrogen-Fixing Symbionts of Chamaecrista fasciculata (Partridge Pea) Across Variable Soils	SOUTHEASTERN NATURALIST	We evaluated whether geographic distance and soil characteristics influence genetic structure of nitrogen-fixing bacterial symbionts associated with the host plant Chamaecrista fasciculata (Partridge Pea). We tested phylogeographic clustering and associations between genetic distance, geographic distance, and soil variables using sequences of 2 bacterial genes and soil chemistry across 23 sites in Mississippi. We identified rhizobia isolated from Partridge Pea as Bradyrhizobium. We detected significant genetic structure at a regional level, and determined that rhizobia within each region were more phylogenetically related than expected. Significant correlation between genetic distance and distances based on soil chemistry suggests environmental influences on rhizobia diversity. High levels of diversity among rhizobia over small spatial scales suggest that symbionts respond to local factors. Understanding geographic diversity in natural assemblages of rhizobia aids in predicting how hosts and symbionts respond to environmental perturbations.	2019	18	10.1656/058.018.0110
Saladin, B; Thuiller, W; Graham, CH; Lavergne, S; Maiorano, L; Salamin, N; Zimmermann, NE	Environment and evolutionary history shape phylogenetic turnover in European tetrapods	NATURE COMMUNICATIONS	Phylogenetic turnover quantifies the evolutionary distance among species assemblages and is central to understanding the main drivers shaping biodiversity. It is affected both by geographic and environmental distance between sites. Therefore, analyzing phylogenetic turnover in environmental space requires removing the effect of geographic distance. Here, we apply a novel approach by deciphering phylogenetic turnover of European tetrapods in environmental space after removing geographic land distance effects. We demonstrate that phylogenetic turnover is strongly structured in environmental space, particularly in ectothermic tetrapods, and is well explained by macroecological characteristics such as niche size, species richness and relative phylogenetic diversity. In ectotherms, rather recent evolutionary processes were important in structuring phylogenetic turnover along environmental gradients. In contrast, early evolutionary processes had already shaped the current structure of phylogenetic turnover in endotherms. Our approach enables the disentangling of the idiosyncrasies of evolutionary processes such as the degree of niche conservatism and diversification rates in structuring biodiversity.	2019	10	10.1038/s41467-018-08232-4
Monchamp, ME; Spaak, P; Pomati, F	Long Term Diversity and Distribution of Non-photosynthetic Cyanobacteria in Peri-Alpine Lakes	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	The phylum Cyanobacteria comprises a non-photosynthetic lineage. The diversity and distribution of non-photosynthetic cyanobacteria (NCY) across aquatic environments are currently unknown, including their ecology. Here, we report about composition and phylogenetic diversity of two clades of NCY in ten lakes of the European peri-Alpine region, over the past similar to 100 years. Using 16S rDNA sequences obtained from dated sediment cores, we found almost equal proportion of taxa assigned to Melainabacteria and the deepest-branching group Sericytochromatia (ML635J-21) (63 total detected taxa). The topology of our reconstructed phylogenies reflected evolutionary relationships expected from previous work, that is, a clear separation between the deepest branching Sericytochromatia, the Melainabacteria, and the photosynthetic cyanobacteria clades. While different lakes harbored distinct NCY communities, the diversity of NCY assemblages within and between lakes (alpha and beta diversity) did not significantly change over the last century. This is in contrast with what was previously reported for photosynthetic cyanobacteria. Unchanged community phylogenetic similarity over geographic distance indicated no dispersal limitation of NCY at the regional scale. Our results solicit studies linking in-lake environmental factors to the composition of these microorganisms communities, whose assembly appeared not to have been influenced by large-scale anthropogenic environmental changes. This is the first attempt to study the diversity and distribution of NCY taxa across temperate lakes. It provides a first step towards understanding their distribution and ecological function in pelagic aquatic habitats, where these organisms seem to be prevalent.	2019	9	10.3389/fmicb.2018.03344
Habtom, H; Pasternak, Z; Matan, O; Azulay, C; Gafny, R; Jurkevitch, E	Applying microbial biogeography in soil forensics	FORENSIC SCIENCE INTERNATIONAL-GENETICS	The ubiquity, heterogeneity and transferability of soil makes it useful as evidence in criminal investigations, especially using new methods that survey the microbial DNA it contains. However, to be used effectively and reliably, more needs to be learned about the natural distribution patterns of microbial communities in soil. In this study we examine these patterns in detail, at local to regional scales (2 m-260 km), across an environmental gradient in three different soil types. Geographic location was found to be more important than soil type in determining the microbial community composition: communities from the same site but different soil types, although significantly different from each other, were still much more similar to each other than were communities from the same soil type but from different sites. At a local scale (25-1000m), distance-decay relationships were observed in all soil types: the farther apart two soil communities were located, even in the same soil type, the more they differed. At regional-scale distances (1-260 km), differences between communities did not increase with increased geographic distance between them, and the dominant factor determining the community profile was the physico-chemical environment, most notably annual precipitation (R-2 = 0.69), soil sodium (R-2 = 0.49) and soil ammonium (R-2 = 0.47) levels. We introduce a likelihood-ratio framework for quantitative evaluation of soil microbial DNA profile evidence in casework. In conclusion, these profiles, along with detailed knowledge of natural soil microbial biogeography, provide valuable forensic information on soil sample comparison and allow the determination of approximate source location on large (hundreds of km) spatial scales. Moreover, at small spatial scales it may enable pinpointing the source location of a sample to within at least 25 m, regardless of soil type and environmental conditions.	2019	38	10.1016/j.fsigen.2018.11.010
Onyearugbulem, C; Williams, L; Zhu, HR; Gazzaneo, MC; Melicoff, E; Das, S; Coss-Bu, J; Lam, F; Mallory, G; Munoz, FM	Risk factors for infection after pediatric lung transplantation	TRANSPLANT INFECTIOUS DISEASE	Although infection is the leading cause of death in the first year following pediatric lung transplantation, there are limited data on risk factors for early infection. Sepsis remains under-recognized and under-reported in the early post-operative period for lung transplant recipients (LTR). We evaluated the incidence of infection and sepsis, and identified risk factors for infection in the early post-operative period in pediatric LTRs. A retrospective review of medical records of LTRs at a large quaternary-care hospital from January 2009 to March 2016 was conducted. Microbiology results on days 0-7 after transplant were obtained. Sepsis was defined using the 2005 International Pediatric Consensus Conferencecriteria. Risk factors included history of recipient and donor infection, history of multi-drug resistant (MDR) infection, nutritional status, and surgical times. Among the 98 LTRs, there were 22 (22%) with post-operative infection. Prolonged donor ischemic time >= 7 hours, cardiopulmonary bypass(CPB) time >= 340 minutes, history of MDR infection and diagnosis of cystic fibrosis were significantly associated with infection. With multivariable regression analysis, only prolonged donor ischemic time remained significant (OR 4.4, 95% CI: 1.34-14.48). Further research is needed to determine whether processes to reduce donor ischemic time could result in decreased post-transplant morbidity.	2018	20	10.1111/tid.13000
Borsodi, AK; Anda, D; Makk, J; Krett, G; Dobosy, P; Buki, G; Eross, A; Madl-Szonyi, J	Biofilm forming bacteria and archaea in thermal karst springs of Gellert Hill discharge area (Hungary)	JOURNAL OF BASIC MICROBIOLOGY	The Buda Thermal Karst System (BTKS) is an extensive active hypogenic cave system located beneath the residential area of the Hungarian capital. At the river Danube, several thermal springs discharge forming spring caves. To reveal and compare the morphological structure and prokaryotic diversity of reddish-brown biofilms developed on the carbonate rock surfaces of the springs, scanning electron microscopy (SEM), and molecular cloning were applied. Microbial networks formed by filamentous bacteria and other cells with mineral crystals embedded in extracellular polymeric substances were observed in the SEM images. Biofilms were dominated by prokaryotes belonging to phyla Proteobacteria, Chloroflexi and Nitrospirae (Bacteria) and Thaumarchaeota (Archaea) but their abundance showed differences according to the type of the host rock, geographic distance, and different water exchange. In addition, representatives of phyla Acidobacteria, Actinobacteria, Caldithrix, Cyanobacteria, Firmicutes Gemmatimonadetes, and several candidate divisions of Bacteria as well as Crenarchaeota and Euryarchaeota were detected in sample-dependent higher abundance. The results indicate that thermophilic, anaerobic sulfur-, sulfate-, nitrate-, and iron(III)-reducing chemoorganotrophic as well as sulfur-, ammonia-, and nitrite-oxidizing chemolithotrophic prokaryotes can interact in the studied biofilms adapted to the unique and extreme circumstances (e.g., aphotic and nearly anoxic conditions, oligotrophy, and radionuclide accumulation) in the thermal karst springs.	2018	58	10.1002/jobm.201800138
Sassenhagen, I; Gao, YD; Lozano-Duque, Y; Parsons, ML; Smith, TB; Erdner, DL	Comparison of Spatial and Temporal Genetic Differentiation in a Harmful Dinoflagellate Species Emphasizes Impact of Local Processes	FRONTIERS IN MARINE SCIENCE	Population genetic studies provide insights into intraspecific diversity and dispersal patterns of microorganisms such as protists, which help understanding invasions, harmful algal bloom development and occurrence of seafood poisoning. Spatial genetic differentiation has been reported in many microbial species indicating significant dispersal barriers among different habitats. Temporal differentiation has been less studied and its frequency, drivers, and magnitude are thus relatively poorly understood. The toxic dinoflagellate species Gambierdiscus caribaeus was sampled during 2 years in the Florida Keys, and repeatedly from 2006 to 2016 at St. Thomas, US Virgin Islands (USVI), including a 3-year period with monthly sampling, enabling a comparison of spatial and temporal genetic differentiation. Samples from the USVI site showed high temporal variability in local population structure, which correlated with changes in salinity and benthic habitat cover. In some cases, temporal variability exceeded spatial differentiation, despite apparent lack of connectivity and dispersal across the Greater Caribbean Region based on the spatial genetic data. Thus, local processes such as selection might have a stronger influence on population structure in microorganisms than geographic distance. The observed high temporal genetic diversity challenges the prediction of harmful algal blooms and toxin concentrations, but illustrates also the evolutionary potential of microalgae to respond to environmental change.	2018	5	10.3389/fmars.2018.00393
Ortiz-Vera, MP; Olchanheski, LR; da Silva, EG; de Lima, FR; Martinez, LRDPR; Sato, MIZ; Jaffe, R; Alves, R; Ichiwaki, S; Padilla, G; Araujo, WL	Influence of water quality on diversity and composition of fungal communities in a tropical river	SCIENTIFIC REPORTS	Freshwater fungi are key decomposers of organic material and play important roles in nutrient cycling, bio-remediation and ecosystem functioning. Although aquatic fungal communities respond to pollution, few studies have quantitatively assessed the effect of freshwater contamination on fungal diversity and composition; and knowledge is scarcer for tropical systems. Here we help fill this knowledge gap by studying a heavily-contaminated South American river spanning a biodiversity hotspot. We collected 30 water samples scattered across a quality gradient over two seasons and analyzed them using Terminal Restriction Fragment Length Polymorphisms (T-RFLP) coupled with 454 Pyrosequencing. Using T-RFLP we identified 451 and 442 Operational Taxonomy Units (OTUs) in the dry and rainy seasons respectively, whereas Pyrosequencing revealed 48,553 OTUs from which 11% were shared between seasons. Although 68% of all identified OTUs and 51% of all identified phyla remained unidentified, dominant fungal phyla included the Ascomycota, Basidiomycota, Chytridiomycota, Glomeromycota, Zygomycota and Neocallimastigomycota, while Calcarisporiella, Didymosphaeria, Mycosphaerella (Ascomycota) and Rhodotorula (Basidiomycota) were the most abundant genera. Fungal diversity was affected by pH and dissolved iron, while community composition was influenced by dissolved oxygen, pH, nitrate, biological oxygen demand, total aluminum, total organic carbon, total iron and seasonality. The presence of potentially pathogenic species was associated with high pH. Furthermore, geographic distance was positively associated with community dissimilarity, suggesting that local conditions allowed divergence among fungal communities. Overall, our findings raise potential concerns for human health and the functioning of tropical river ecosystems and they call for improved water sanitation systems.	2018	8	10.1038/s41598-018-33162-y
Zhang, YM; Wu, G; Jiang, HC; Yang, J; She, WY; Khan, I; Li, WJ	Abundant and Rare Microbial Biospheres Respond Differently to Environmental and Spatial Factors in Tibetan Hot Springs	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Little is known about the distribution and ecological functions of abundant, intermediate, and rare biospheres and their correlations with environmental factors in hot springs. Here, we explored the microbial community composition of total, abundant, intermediate, and rare biospheres in 66 Tibetan hot springs (pairwise geographic distance 0-610 km, temperature 32-86 degrees C, pH 3.0-9.5, and salinity 0.13-1.32 g/L) with the use of Illumina MiSeq high-throughput sequencing. The results showed that the abundant sub-communities were mainly composed of Chloroflexi, Proteobacteria, Deinococcus-Thermus, Aquificae, Bacteroidetes, and Firmicutes. In contrast, the rare sub-communities mainly consisted of most newly proposed or candidate phyla of Dictyoglomi, Hydrogenedentes, Atribacteria, Hadesarchaea, Aminicenantes, Microgenomates, Calescamantes, Omnitrophica, Altiarchaeales, and Chlamydiae. However, the abundant and rare sub-communities shared some common phyla (e.g., Crenarchaeota, Bathyarchaeota, and Chlorobi), which were composed of different OTUs. The abundant, intermediate, and rare sub-communities were mainly influenced by different environmental variables, which could be ascribed to the fact that they may have different growth and activity and thus respond differently to these variables. Spatial factors showed more contribution to shaping of the intermediate and rare communities than to abundant sub-community, suggesting that the abundant taxa were more easily dispersed than their rare counterparts among hot springs. Microbial ecological function prediction revealed that the abundant and rare sub-communities responded differently to the measured environmental factors, suggesting they may occupy different ecological niches in hot springs. The rare sub-communities may play more important roles in organic matter degradation than their abundant counterparts in hot springs. Collectively, this study provides a better understanding on the microbial community structure and potential ecological functions of the abundant and rare biospheres in hot spring ecosystems. The identified rare taxa provide new opportunities of ecological, taxonomic and genomic discoveries in Tibetan hot springs.	2018	9	10.3389/fmicb.2018.02096
Hernandez-Garcia, JA; Gonzalez-Escobedo, R; Briones-Roblero, CI; Cano-Ramirez, C; Rivera-Orduna, FN; Zuniga, G	Gut Bacterial Communities of Dendroctonus valens and D. mexicanus (Curculionidae: Scolytinae): A Metagenomic Analysis across Different Geographical Locations in Mexico	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF MOLECULAR SCIENCES	Dendroctonus bark beetles are a worldwide significant pest of conifers. This genus comprises 20 species found in North and Central America, and Eurasia. Several studies have documented the microbiota associated with these bark beetles, but little is known regarding how the gut bacterial communities change across host range distribution. We use pyrosequencing to characterize the gut bacterial communities associated with six populations of Dendroctonus valens and D. mexicanus each across Mexico, determine the core bacteriome of both insects and infer the metabolic pathways of these communities with Phylogenetic Investigation of Communities by Reconstruction of Unobserved States (PICRUSt) to evaluate whether these routes are conserved across geographical locations. Our results show that the beta-diversity with UniFrac unweighted varies among locations of both bark beetles mainly due to absence/presence of some rare taxa. No association is found between the pairwise phylogenetic distance of bacterial communities and geographic distance. A strict intraspecific core bacteriome is determined for each bark beetle species, but these cores are different in composition and abundance. However, both bark beetles share the interspecific core bacteriome recorded previously for the Dendroctonus genus consisting of Enterobacter, Pantoea, Providencia, Pseudomonas, Rahnella, and Serratia. The predictions of metabolic pathways are the same in the different localities, suggesting that they are conserved through the geographical locations.	2018	19	10.3390/ijms19092578
Zhang, HJ; Huang, XL; Huang, L; Bao, FJ; Xiong, SL; Wang, K; Zhang, DM	Microeukaryotic biogeography in the typical subtropical coastal waters with multiple environmental gradients	SCIENCE OF THE TOTAL ENVIRONMENT	The determinants of microeukaryotic biogeography in coastal waters at a regional scale remain largely unclear. The coastal northern Zhejiang (in the East China Sea) is a typical subtropical marine ecosystemwithmultiple environmental gradients that has been extensively perturbed by anthropogenic activities. Thus, it is a valuable region to investigate the key drivers that shape microbial biogeography. We investigated microeukaryotic communities in surface waters from115 stations in this region using 18S ribosomal RNA gene amplicon sequencing. The microeukaryotic communities were mainly comprised of Dinoflagellata, Ciliophora, Protalveolata, Rhizaria, Stramenopiles and Cryptophyceae. The top abundant operational taxonomic units (OTUs) were highly specific for distinct habitat types, exhibiting significant environment-conditioned features; however, the cosmopolitan OTUs were not strongly correlated with the measured environmental variables. Total phosphorus and suspended particles were major environmental determinants of microeukaryotic alpha-diversity. Environmental variables, particularly temperature, salinity, pH and silicate concentration, were strongly associated with the microeukaryotic community composition. Overall, environmental and spatial factors explained 55.92% of community variation in total with 34.03% of the variation shared, suggesting that spatially structured environmental variations mainly conditioned the microeukaryotic biogeography in this region. Additionally, dispersal limitation, as indicated by the great pure spatial effect and distance-decay pattern, was another important factor. In summary, our results reveal that spatially structured environmental variation and dispersal limitation mainly conditioned the microeukaryotic biogeography. The results may provide useful distribution patterns of microeukaryotes to determine sources of microbes from marine ecosystems that may facilitate the utilization of coastal resources. (C) 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2018	635	10.1016/j.scitotenv.2018.04.142
Bahram, M; Hildebrand, F; Forslund, SK; Anderson, JL; Soudzilovskaia, NA; Bodegom, PM; Bengtsson-Palme, J; Anslan, S; Coelho, LP; Harend, H; Huerta-Cepas, J; Medema, MH; Maltz, MR; Mundra, S; Olsson, PA; Pent, M; Polme, S; Sunagawa, S; Ryberg, M; Tedersoo, L; Bork, P	Structure and function of the global topsoil microbiome	NATURE	Soils harbour some of the most diverse microbiomes on Earth and are essential for both nutrient cycling and carbon storage. To understand soil functioning, it is necessary to model the global distribution patterns and functional gene repertoires of soil microorganisms, as well as the biotic and environmental associations between the diversity and structure of both bacterial and fungal soil communities(1-4). Here we show, by leveraging metagenomics and metabarcoding of global topsoil samples (189 sites, 7,560 subsamples), that bacterial, but not fungal, genetic diversity is highest in temperate habitats and that microbial gene composition varies more strongly with environmental variables than with geographic distance. We demonstrate that fungi and bacteria show global niche differentiation that is associated with contrasting diversity responses to precipitation and soil pH. Furthermore, we provide evidence for strong bacterial-fungal antagonism, inferred from antibiotic-resistance genes, in topsoil and ocean habitats, indicating the substantial role of biotic interactions in shaping microbial communities. Our results suggest that both competition and environmental filtering affect the abundance, composition and encoded gene functions of bacterial and fungal communities, indicating that the relative contributions of these microorganisms to global nutrient cycling varies spatially.	2018	560	10.1038/s41586-018-0386-6
Tian, J; He, NP; Kong, WD; Deng, Y; Feng, K; Green, SM; Wang, XB; Zhou, JZ; Kuzyakov, Y; Ye, GR	Deforestation decreases spatial turnover and alters the network interactions in soil bacterial communities	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	Despite important progress in understanding the influence of deforestation on the bacterial a diversity and community structure at local scales, little is known about deforestation impacts in terms of spatial turnover and soil bacterial community network interactions, especially at regional or global scales. To address this research gap, we examined the bacterial spatial turnover rate and the species networks in paired primary and secondary forest soils along a 3700-km north-south transect in eastern China using high-throughput 16S rRNA gene sequencing. The spatial turnover rate of bacterial communities was higher in primary forests than in secondary, suggesting deforestation increased biotic homogenization at a large geographic scale. Multiple regression on matrices analysis revealed that both geographic distance and soil properties (especially soil pH and organic matter availability) strongly affected bacterial spatial turnover. Through the phylogenetic molecular ecological network approach, we demonstrate that the bacterial network of primary forests was more intricate than in secondary forests. This suggests that microbial species have greater niche-sharing and more interactions in primary forests as compared to secondary forests. On the other hand, the bacterial network in secondary forests was more modular, and the taxa tended to co-occur, with positive correlations accounting for 82% of all potential interactions. In conclusion, our findings demonstrate that anthropogenic deforestation has clear effects on bacterial spatial turnover and network interactions, with potential for serious consequences such as microbial diversity loss in primary forests.	2018	123	10.1016/j.soilbio.2018.05.007
Power, JF; Carere, CR; Lee, CK; Wakerley, GLJ; Evans, DW; Button, M; White, D; Climo, MD; Hinze, AM; Morgan, XC; McDonald, IR; Cary, SC; Stott, MB	Microbial biogeography of 925 geothermal springs in New Zealand	NATURE COMMUNICATIONS	Geothermal springs are model ecosystems to investigate microbial biogeography as they represent discrete, relatively homogenous habitats, are distributed across multiple geographical scales, span broad geochemical gradients, and have reduced metazoan interactions. Here, we report the largest known consolidated study of geothermal ecosystems to determine factors that influence biogeographical patterns. We measured bacterial and archaeal community composition, 46 physicochemical parameters, and metadata from 925 geothermal springs across New Zealand (13.9-100.6 degrees C and pH <1-9.7). We determined that diversity is primarily influenced by pH at temperatures <70 degrees C; with temperature only having a significant effect for values >70 degrees C. Further, community dissimilarity increases with geographic distance, with niche selection driving assembly at a localised scale. Surprisingly, two genera (Venenivibrio and Acidithiobacillus) dominated in both average relative abundance (11.2% and 11.1%, respectively) and prevalence (74.2% and 62.9%, respectively). These findings provide an unprecedented insight into ecological behaviour in geothermal springs, and a foundation to improve the characterisation of microbial biogeographical processes.	2018	9	10.1038/s41467-018-05020-y
Varudkar, A; Ramakrishnan, U	Gut microflora may facilitate adaptation to anthropic habitat: A comparative study in Rattus	ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION	Anthropophilic species (commensal species) that are completely dependent upon anthropic habitats experience different selective pressures particularly in terms of food than their noncommensal counterparts. Using a next-generation sequencing approach, we characterized and compared the gut microflora community of 53 commensal Rattus rattus and 59 noncommensal Rattus satarae captured in 10 locations in the Western Ghats, India. We observed that, while species identity was important in characterizing the microflora communities of the two Rattus hosts, environmental factors also had a significant effect. While there was significant geographic variation in the microflora of the noncommensal R.satarae, there was no effect of geographic distance on gut microflora of the commensal R.rattus. Interestingly, host genetic distance did not significantly influence the community in either Rattus hosts. Collectively, these results indicate that a shift in habitat is likely to result in a change in the gut microflora community and imply that the gut microflora is a complex trait, influenced by various parameters in different habitats.	2018	8	10.1002/ece3.4040
Li, Y; Sun, LL; Sun, ML; Su, HN; Zhang, XY; Xie, BB; Chen, XL; Zhang, YZ; Qin, QL	Vertical and horizontal biogeographic patterns and major factors affecting bacterial communities in the open South China Sea	SCIENTIFIC REPORTS	Microorganisms display diverse biogeographic patterns in the three-dimensional contiguous seawater. The distance-decay relationship, the change in species composition similarity between different communities over a geographic distance, is a commonly observed biogeographic pattern. To study biogeographic patterns and the corresponding driving forces, the bacterial distance-decay patterns along the horizontal and vertical dimensions in the South China Sea (SCS) were investigated through the sequencing of partial 16 S rRNA gene regions. Along the horizontal geographical distances (up to similar to 1000 km), no significant distance-decay pattern in community compositions was observed in any of the tested seawater layers. However, vertical depths (up to similar to 4 km) had strong effects on bacterial community variation, which was apparently governed by dispersal barriers due to limited water mass mixing. In addition, community variations in the vertical direction were strongly correlated with the prominent variation of environmental factors. Apparently, the changes in bacterial community compositions along vertical distances were much greater than those along horizontal distances. The results showed that the distance-decay relationship in bacterial communities at the medium spatial scale was associated with vertical depth rather than with horizontal distance, even though the horizontal distance is much larger than the vertical distance in the open SCS.	2018	8	10.1038/s41598-018-27191-w
Barrantes-Infante, BL; Schroeder, BK; Subbotin, SA; Murray, TD	Afrina sporoboliae sp n. (Nematoda: Anguinidae) Associated with Sporobolus cryptandrus from Idaho, United States: Phylogenetic Relationships and Population Structure	PHYTOPATHOLOGY	The dropseed gall-forming nematode, Afrina sporoboliae sp. n., is described from seed galls of Sporobolus cryptandrus (Poaceae: Chloridoideae: Sporobolinae) collected in Idaho, USA. This is the third report of an Afrina species in North America and the first report of this genus in a natural plant population on this continent. Morphological, morphometric, and molecular analyses placed this nematode in genus Afrina and demonstrated that it differs from Afrina hyparrheniae and Afrina spermophaga by having longer body and stylet lengths for females and males, and from Afrina wevelli by the absence of tip irregularities on the tails of female and presence of lips noticeably protruding beyond the body contour. The new species has several characters that overlap with Afrina tumefaciens, but differs from this species by inducing seed galls, whereas Afrina tumefaciens induces ovoid galls on stems, leaves, and in flower heads. Evolutionary relationships of Afrina sporoboliae sp. n. with other representatives of the family Anguinidae are presented based on analysis of the internal transcribed spacer (ITS)1-5.8S-ITS2 rRNA and the D2-D3 regions of the rRNA genes. Analysis of 270 sequences of the coxl gene from 25 populations of Afrina sporoboliae sp. n. revealed seven haplotypes with sequence divergence up to 5%. This study did not demonstrate a significant positive relationship between genetic difference and geographic distance. Seed gall nematodes are important quarantine pests in many countries. The association of this and other seed gall nematodes with Rathayibacter species and their ability to serve as vectors, especially of R. toxicus, is of concern for U.S. agriculture.	2018	108	10.1094/PHYTO-12-17-0395-R
Pent, M; Hiltunen, M; Poldmaa, K; Furneaux, B; Hildebrand, F; Johannesson, H; Ryberg, M; Bahram, M	Host genetic variation strongly influences the microbiome structure and function in fungal fruiting-bodies	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Despite increasing knowledge on host-associated microbiomes, little is known about mechanisms underlying fungus-microbiome interactions. This study aimed to examine the relative importance of host genetic, geographic and environmental variations in structuring fungus-associated microbiomes. We analyzed the taxonomic composition and function of microbiomes inhabiting fungal fruiting-bodies in relation to host genetic variation, soil pH and geographic distance between samples. For this, we sequenced the metagenomes of 40 fruiting-bodies collected from six fairy rings (i.e., genets) of a sapro-trophic fungus Marasmius oreades. Our analyses revealed that fine genetic variations between host fungi could strongly affect their associated microbiome, explaining, respectively, 25% and 37% of the variation in microbiome structure and function, whereas geographic distance and soil pH remained of secondary importance. These results, together with the smaller genome size of fungi compared to other eukaryotes, suggest that fruiting-bodies are suitable for further genome-centric studies on hostmicrobiome interactions.	2018	20	10.1111/1462-2920.14069
Angermeyer, A; Crosby, SC; Huber, JA	Salt marsh sediment bacterial communities maintain original population structure after transplantation across a latitudinal gradient	PEERJ	Dispersal and environmental selection are two of the most important factors that govern the distributions of microbial communities in nature. While dispersal rates are often inferred by measuring the degree to which community similarity diminishes with increasing geographic distance, determining the extent to which environmental selection impacts the distribution of microbes is more complex. To address this knowledge gap, we performed a large reciprocal transplant experiment to simulate the dispersal of US East Coast salt marsh Spartina alterniflora rhizome-associated microbial sediment communities across a latitudinal gradient and determined if any shifts in microbial community composition occurred as a result of the transplantation. Using bacterial 16S rRNA gene sequencing, we did not observe large-scale changes in community composition over a five-month S. alterniflora summer growing season and found that transplanted communities more closely resembled their origin sites than their destination sites. Furthermore, transplanted communities grouped predominantly by region, with two sites from the north and three sites to the south hosting distinct bacterial taxa, suggesting that sediment communities transplanted from north to south tended to retain their northern microbial distributions, and south to north maintained a southern distribution. A small number of potential indicator 16S rRNA gene sequences had distributions that were strongly correlated to both temperature and nitrogen, indicating that some organisms are more sensitive to environmental factors than others. These results provide new insight into the microbial biogeography of salt marsh sediments and suggest that established bacterial communities in frequently-inundated environments may be both highly resistant to invasion and resilient to some environmental shifts. However, the extent to which environmental selection impacts these communities is taxon specific and variable, highlighting the complex interplay between dispersal and environmental selection for microbial communities in nature.	2018	6	10.7717/peerj.4735
Yuan, CL; Zhang, LM; Hu, HW; Wang, JT; Shen, JP; He, JZ	The biogeography of fungal communities in paddy soils is mainly driven by geographic distance	JOURNAL OF SOILS AND SEDIMENTS	The aim of this study is to answer how the biogeographic patterns of fungi are affected by spatial and environmental factors in paddy soils characterized by unique field management. Given the generally low C/N ratios of paddy soils, we also want to test a hypothesis that the dominant fungi in paddy soils are Ascomycota, which reportedly prefer habitats with low soil C/N ratios. Using quantitative PCR and barcoded pyrosequencing, we investigated the abundance, diversity, and community composition of fungal communities in 30 surface paddy soil samples collected from 10 rice cultivation regions of China. Pearsons correlation, analysis of variance, partial least squares regression, principal coordinates analysis, and variation partition were performed for analyses of gene copy numbers, alpha-diversity, beta-diversity, and relative abundances of fungal taxa and their relationships with environmental factors. The abundance of fungal 18S rRNA gene varied from 10(6.4) to 10(8.6) copies g(-1) soil, and was positively correlated with soil sand, organic matter, and total nitrogen content, and negatively correlated with soil chloride concentration. Ascomycota comprised 88% of total fungal sequences and increased in relative abundance with increasing soil pH and decreasing mean annual temperature (MAT) and precipitation (MAP). The predominance of Ascomycota in fungal communities is probably due to the low soil C/N ratios (9-15) in the paddy soils studied. The alpha-diversity increased with MAT, MAP, and soil nitrate-N and total nitrogen content but decreased with soil pH, clay content, chloride concentration, and C/N ratio. Variation partition revealed that fungal beta-diversity was mainly driven by geographic distance. In paddy soils which are characterized by intensive rice cropping practices, fungal abundance is mainly influenced by soil properties, fungal alpha-diversity is constrained by both climatic factors and soil properties, while fungal community compositions are mainly structured by geographic distance.	2018	18	10.1007/s11368-018-1924-4
Liu, JX; Li, C; Jing, JH; Zhao, PY; Luo, ZM; Cao, MW; Ma, ZZ; Jia, T; Chai, BF	Ecological patterns and adaptability of bacterial communities in alkaline copper mine drainage	WATER RESEARCH	Environmental gradient have strong effects on community assembly processes. In order to reveal the effects of alkaline mine drainage (AIkMD) on bacterial and denitrifying bacterial community compositions and diversity in tailings reservoir, here we conducted an experiment to examine all and core bacterial taxa and denitrifying functional geness (nirS, nirK, nosZ(I)) abundance along a chemical gradient in tailings water in Shibahe copper tailings in Zhongtiaoshan, China. Differences in bacterial and denitrifying bacterial community compositions in different habitats and their relationships with environmental parameters were analyzed. The results showed that the richness and diversity of bacterial community in downstream seeping water (SDSW) were the largest, while that in upstream tailings water (STW1) were the lowest. The diversity and abundance of bacterial communities tended to increase from STW1 to SDSW. The variation of bacterial community diversity was significantly related to electro-conductibility (EC), nitrate (NO3-), nitrite (NO2-), total carbon (TC), inorganic carbon (IC) and sulfate (SO42-), but was not correlated with geographic distance in local scale. Core taxa from class to genus were all significantly related to NO3- and NO2-. Core taxa Rhodobacteraceae, Rhodobacter, Acinetobacter and Hydrogenophaga were typical denitrifying bacteria. The variation trends of these groups were consistent with the copy number of nirS, nirK and nosZI, demonstrating their importance in the process of nitrogen reduction. The copy number of nirK, nosZ(I) and nirS/16S rDNA, nirK/16Sr DNA correlated strongly with NON, NOT and IC, but nirS and nosZ(I)/16SrDNA had no significant correlation with NO3- and NOT. The copy numbers of denitrifying functional genes (nirS, nirK and nosZI) were negatively correlated with heavy metal plumbum (Pb) and zinc (Zn). It showed that heavy metal contamination was an important factor affecting the structure of denitrifying bacterial community in AIkMD. In this study we have identified the distribution pattern of bacterial community along physiochemical gradients in alkaline tailings reservoir and displayed the driving force of shaping the structure of bacterial community. The influence of NON, NOT, IC and heavy metal Pb and Zn on bacterial community might via their influence on the functional groups involving nitrogen, carbon and metal metabolisms. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2018	133	10.1016/j.watres.2018.01.014
Dhami, MK; Hartwig, T; Letten, AD; Banf, M; Fukami, T	Genomic diversity of a nectar yeast clusters into metabolically, but not geographically, distinct lineages	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	Both dispersal limitation and environmental sorting can affect genetic variation in populations, but their contribution remains unclear, particularly in microbes. We sought to determine the contribution of geographic distance (as a proxy for dispersal limitation) and phenotypic traits (as a proxy for environmental sorting), including morphology, metabolic ability and interspecific competitiveness, to the genotypic diversity in a nectar yeast species, Metschnikowia reukaufii. To measure genotypic diversity, we sequenced the genomes of 102 strains of M. reukaufii isolated from the floral nectar of hummingbird-pollinated shrub, Mimulus aurantiacus, along a 200-km coastline in California. Intraspecific genetic variation showed no detectable relationship with geographic distance, but could be grouped into three distinct lineages that correlated with metabolic ability and interspecific competitiveness. Despite ample evidence for strong competitive interactions within and among nectar yeasts, a full spectrum of the genotypic and phenotypic diversity observed across the 200-km coastline was represented even at a scale as small as 200 m. Further, more competitive strains were not necessarily more abundant. These results suggest that dispersal limitation and environmental sorting might not fully explain intraspecific diversity in this microbe and highlight the need to also consider other ecological factors such as trade-offs, source-sink dynamics and niche modification.	2018	27	10.1111/mec.14535
Yang, J; Jiang, HC; Liu, W; Wang, BC	Benthic Algal Community Structures and Their Response to Geographic Distance and Environmental Variables in the Qinghai-Tibetan Lakes With Different Salinity	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Uncovering the limiting factors for benthic algal distributions in lakes is of great importance to understanding of their role in global carbon cycling. However, limited is known about the benthic algal community distribution and how they are influenced by geographic distance and environmental variables in alpine lakes. Here, we investigated the benthic algal community compositions in the surface sediments of six lakes on the Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau (QTP), China (salinity ranging from 0.8 to 365.6 g/L; pairwise geographic distance among the studied lakes ranging 8-514 km) employing an integrated approach including Illumina-Miseq sequencing and environmental geochemistry. The results showed that the algal communities of the studied samples were mainly composed of orders of Bacillariales, Ceramiales, Naviculales, Oscillatoriales, Spirulinales, Synechococcales, and Vaucheriales. The benthic algal community compositions in these QTP lakes were significantly (p < 0.05) correlated with many environmental (e.g., dissolved inorganic and organic carbon, illumination intensity, total nitrogen and phosphorus, turbidity and water temperature) and spatial factors, and salinity did not show significant influence on the benthic algal community structures in the studied lakes. Furthermore, geographic distance showed strong, significant correlation (r = 0.578, p < 0.001) with the benthic algal community compositions among the studied lakes, suggesting that spatial factors may play important roles in influencing the benthic algal distribution. These results expand our current knowledge on the influencing factors for the distributions of benthic alga in alpine lakes.	2018	9	10.3389/fmicb.2018.00578
Tian, JQ; Zhu, D; Wang, JZ; Wu, B; Hussain, M; Liu, XZ	Environmental factors driving fungal distribution in freshwater lake sediments across the Headwater Region of the Yellow River, China	SCIENTIFIC REPORTS	Dispersal limitation and environmental filtering are two primary processes involved in shaping microbial community structure. The pristine environmental and geographical relatively isolation of small lakes distributed in the Headwater Region of Yellow River (HRYR) offer a unique opportunity to test the relative roles of these two processes on fungal communities. Here, we investigated the fungal community in sediment samples from 10 lakes located in the HRYR using high-throughput sequencing. The results showed that the fungal community was dominated by Sordariomycetes, Leotiomycetes, Dothideomycetes, Pezizomycetes and Agaricomycetes. The results revealed that altitude, mean annual temperature, C/N ration, dissolve organic carbon and total nitrogen were the best predictors for shaping fungal community structure in these lakes. Significant spatial and environmental distance decay relationships in the fungal community were detected. The partial Mantel test indicated that the fungal community structure was significantly correlated with environmental distance but not with geographic distance. Overall, environmental filtering plays a more important role than dispersal limitation in fungal community structure at a local scale in such an pristine and isolated region.	2018	8	10.1038/s41598-018-21995-6
Hu, Y; Cai, J; Bai, CR; Shao, KQ; Tang, XM; Gao, G	Contrasting patterns of the bacterial and archaeal communities in a high-elevation river in northwestern China	JOURNAL OF MICROBIOLOGY	The patterns of macrobiota in lotic ecosystems have been extensively explored, however, the dynamics of microbiota remain poorly investigated, especially in the high-elevation region. To address this deficit, we collected eight samples to unveil the bacterial and archaeal community in the Kaidu river, located at the arid region of northwestern China (an average of 2,500 m a.s.l.). For the bacterial community, phylogenetically Betaproteobacteria prevailed, followed by Alphaproteobacteria and Actinobacteria; at the finer genus level, Limnohabitans and Variovorax were prominent. Along the river, the bacterial community showed a continuous succession. Specifically, their alpha- and beta-diversity gradually increased, suggesting a distance-decay pattern. Additionally, there was an ecological transition between the dominant and the rare sub-community along the river: the relative abundance of the dominant members gradually decreased as the rare members increased. We report that temperature and spatial distance were significantly related to the variation of bacterial community. Variance partitioning analysis showed that the environmental factors contributed more to the bacterial community than did the spatial distance. In the case of the archaeal community, the methanogenic groups, mainly Methanosaeta and Methanosarcina, were prominent within the Kaidu river. Unlike the continuous change in the patterns of the bacterial community, the archaeal community showed a constant pattern along the river. Our results showed that the archaeal community was independent of the environmental and spatial factors. We propose that the inoculation of soil-derived archaea is responsible for the archaeal community in the Kaidu river. Together, our study demonstrated that the bacterial community in the high-elevation Kaidu river is a continuum, whereas the archaeal community is not.	2018	56	10.1007/s12275-018-7244-y
Yuan, HY; Liu, PP; Wang, N; Li, XM; Zhu, YG; Khan, ST; Alkhedhairy, AA; Sun, GX	The influence of soil properties and geographical distance on the bacterial community compositions of paddy soils enriched on SMFC anodes	JOURNAL OF SOILS AND SEDIMENTS	Exoelectrogens are important microorganisms playing crucial roles in the biogeochemistry of elements in paddy soils. But it remains unclear how the soil properties and geographical distances affect the exoelectrogen communities of Chinese paddy soils. So the objectives of this study were to investigate the diversity and composition of these microbial communities which were enriched on the anodes of soil microbial fuel cells (SMFCs) and to elucidate the links between the microbial community compositions and their driving factors. We used Illumina HiSeq sequencing to determine the bacterial community structures which were enriched on the anodes of SMFCs. Variance partitioning analysis (VPA) was used to obtain the contribution of soil properties and geographical distance to the variations of bacterial communities. Active bacterial community on anodes of the closed circuit SMFCs differs significantly from the control open circuit SMFCs. Anodes of all the closed circuit SMFCs were characterized by the presence of high numbers of Nitrospira and Anaerolineae. Taxonomic similarities and phylogenetic similarities of bacterial communities from different paddy soil samples across North and South China were found to be significantly correlated with geographical distances. The relationship between the similarities and the geographic distance exhibited a distance-decay relationship. VPA showed that both geographical distances and soil properties affect the structure of bacterial communities detected on anodes. Our study gives a foundation for understanding the distribution and diversity of exoelectrogens in paddy soils and elucidates the links between the distribution and the diversity of extracellular respiring bacteria and their driving factors. Furthermore, this study also identifies the crucial factors which should be used to evaluate the response of exoelectrogens to environmental perturbations in Chinese paddy soils.	2018	18	10.1007/s11368-017-1769-2
Yu, SX; Pang, YL; Wang, YC; Li, JL; Qin, S	Distribution of bacterial communities along the spatial and environmental gradients from Bohai Sea to northern Yellow Sea	PEERJ	The eutrophic Bohai Sea receives large amount of suspended material, nutrients and contaminant from terrestrial runoff, and exchanges waters with the northern Yellow Sea through a narrow strait. This coastal region provides an ideal model system to study microbial biogeography. The performed high-throughput sequencing to investigate the distribution of bacterial taxa along spatial and environmental gradients. The results showed bacterial communities presented remarkable horizontal and vertical distribution under coastal gradients of spatial and environmental factors. Fourteen abundant taxa clustered the samples into three distinctive groups, reflecting typical habitats in shallow coastal water (seafloor depth <= 20 m), sunlit surface layer (at water surface with seafloor depth >20 m) and bottom water (at 2-3 m above sediment with seafloor depth >20 m), The most significant taxa of each cluster were determined by the least discriminant analysis effect size, and strongly correlated with spatial and environmental variables. Environmental factors (especially turbidity and nitrite) exhibited significant influences on bacterial beta-diversity in surface water (at 0 m sampling depth), while community similarity in bottom water (at 2-3 m above sediment) was mainly determined by depth. In both surface and bottom water, we found bacterial community similarity and the number of OTUs shared between every two sites decreased with increasing geographic distance, Bacterial dispersal was also affected by phosphate, which was possible due to the high ratios of IN/IP in this coastal sea area.	2018	6	10.7717/peerj.4272
Tian, J; He, NP; Hale, L; Niu, SL; Yu, GR; Liu, Y; Blagodatskaya, E; Kuzyakov, Y; Gao, Q; Zhou, JZ	Soil organic matter availability and climate drive latitudinal patterns in bacterial diversity from tropical to cold temperate forests	FUNCTIONAL ECOLOGY	Bacteria are one of the most abundant and diverse groups of micro-organisms and mediate many critical terrestrial ecosystem processes. Despite the crucial ecological role of bacteria, our understanding of their large-scale biogeography patterns across forests, and the processes that determine these patterns lags significantly behind that of macroorganisms. Here, we evaluated the geographic distributions of bacterial diversity and their driving factors across nine latitudinal forests along a 3,700-km north-south transect in eastern China, using high-throughput 16S rRNA gene sequencing. Four of 32 phyla detected were dominant: Acidobacteria, Actinobacteria, Alphaproteobacteria and Chloroflexi (relative abundance>5%). Significant increases in bacterial richness and phylogenetic diversity were observed for temperate forests compared with subtropical or tropical forests. The soil organic matter (SOM) mineralisation rate (SOMmin, an index of SOM availability) explained the largest significant variations in bacterial richness. Variation partition analysis revealed that the bacterial community structure was closely correlated with environmental variables and geographic distance, which together explained 80.5% of community variation. Among all environmental factors, climatic features (MAT and MAP) were the best predictors of the bacterial community structure, whereas soil pH and SOMmin emerged as the most important edaphic drivers of the bacterial community structure. Plant functional traits (community weighted means of litter N content) and diversity resulted in weak but significant correlations with the bacterial community structure. Our findings provide new evidence of bacterial biogeography patterns from tropical to cold temperate forests. Additionally, the results indicated a close linkage among soil bacterial diversity, climate and SOM decomposition, which is critical for predicting continental-scale responses under future climate change scenarios and promoting sustainable forest ecosystem services.	2018	32	10.1111/1365-2435.12952
Zhang, JF; Nasir, F; Tian, L; Bahadur, A; Batool, A; Ma, LN; Zhou, X; Zhao, SX; Tian, CJ	Impact of Ecological Factors on the Diversity and Community Assemblage of the Bacteria Harbored in the Rhizosphere of Hippophae rhamnoides	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF AGRICULTURE AND BIOLOGY	There is concerted understanding that soil bacterial communities have the main influence in directing the structure of soil environment yet little is acknowledged about their ecological distribution. We assessed the distribution pattern for the unique community structure and rich diversity of bacteria including Frankia and the connection between environmental factors and ecological distance. Bacterial communities in Hippophae rhamnoides roots were evaluated along 6 geographically distributed sites in Tibet-Sichuan signifying various soil characteristics. Using Illumina MiSeq sequencing the V3-V4 region of bacterial 16S rRNA genes, Actinobacteria, Proteobacteria, and Cyanobacteria were found the dominant phyla across all samples, while in Actinobacteria, the Fankia was abundant and total 5 Frankia operational taxonomic units (OTUs) were classified based on 97% sequence similarity, respectively. pH and altitude correlated to (OTUs) richness in bacteria however in Frankia, it was with Shannons diversity indicating its significant effect on community In addition, the geographic distance and soil characters significantly contributed to the variation in the bacteria and Frankia community and diversity. This is the leading and most comprehensive research that has tested ecological distribution of bacterial assemblage. Our findings support that the environmental factors have direct influence on ecological distribution, shaping bacterial community and diversity of Tibetan and non-Tibetan region, China. (C) 2018 Friends Science Publishers	2018	20	10.17957/IJAB/15.0689
Challagundla, L; Luo, X; Tickler, IA; Didelot, X; Coleman, DC; Shore, AC; Coombs, GW; Sordelli, DO; Brown, EL; Skov, R; Larsen, AR; Reyes, J; Robledo, IE; Vazquez, GJ; Rivera, R; Fey, PD; Stevenson, K; Wang, SH; Kreiswirth, BN; Mediavilla, JR; Arias, CA; Planet, PJ; Nolan, RL; Tenover, FC; Goering, RV; Robinson, DA	Range Expansion and the Origin of USA300 North American Epidemic Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus	MBIO	The USA300 North American epidemic (USA300-NAE) clone of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus has caused a wave of severe skin and soft tissue infections in the United States since it emerged in the early 2000s, but its geographic origin is obscure. Here we use the population genomic signatures expected from the serial founder effects of a geographic range expansion to infer the origin of USA300-NAE and identify polymorphisms associated with its spread. Genome sequences from 357 isolates from 22 U.S. states and territories and seven other countries are compared. We observe two significant signatures of range expansion, including decreases in genetic diversity and increases in derived allele frequency with geographic distance from the Pennsylvania region. These signatures account for approximately half of the core nucleotide variation of this clone, occur genome wide, and are robust to heterogeneity in temporal sampling of isolates, human population density, and recombination detection methods. The potential for positive selection of a gyrA fluoroquinolone resistance allele and several intergenic regions, along with a 2.4 times higher recombination rate in a resistant subclade, is noted. These results are the first to show a pattern of genetic variation that is consistent with a range expansion of an epidemic bacterial clone, and they highlight a rarely considered but potentially common mechanism by which genetic drift may profoundly influence bacterial genetic variation. IMPORTANCE The process of geographic spread of an origin population by a series of smaller populations can result in distinctive patterns of genetic variation. We detect these patterns for the first time with an epidemic bacterial clone and use them to uncover the clones geographic origin and variants associated with its spread. We study the USA300 clone of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus, which was first noticed in the early 2000s and subsequently became the leading cause of skin and soft tissue infections in the United States. The eastern United States is the most likely origin of epidemic USA300. Relatively few variants, which include an antibiotic resistance mutation, have persisted during this clones spread. Our study suggests that an early chapter in the genetic history of this epidemic bacterial clone was greatly influenced by random subsampling of isolates during the clones geographic spread.	2018	9	10.1128/mBio.02016-17
Yang, J; Jiang, HC; Wu, G; Liu, W	Phylum-Level Archaeal Distributions in the Sediments of Chinese Lakes With a Large Range of Salinity	GEOMICROBIOLOGY JOURNAL	Uncovering microbial diversity and their influencing factors is a primary goal for microbial ecology. In comparison with studies on bacterial diversity, limited is known about archaeal diversity and its response to influencing factors in lakes. Here, we investigated the archaeal community compositions (ACCs) and their correlation with spatial/environmental factors in the sediments from 38 Chinese lakes with a large range of salinity (0.2-363.1 g/l) and pairwise geographic distance (3-3656 km). Illumina-Miseq sequencing was employed to characterize the ACCs in the lakes samples. The results showed that Euryarchaeota, Bathyarchaeota, Thaumarchaeota, and Woesearchaeota were the dominant archaeal phyla in the studied samples, and they each can occur in the samples with a wide range of salinity (0.2-363.1 g/l) although their abundance was relatively low (<1%) in certain samples. The Thaumarchaeota and Woesearchaeota phyla dominated (up to 90% of total sequences) some lake sediments. Mantel test indicated that compositions of total archaeal community and the Euryarchaeota and Woesearchaeota populations were significantly (p < 0.05) correlated with geographic distance in the studied lake sediments. Salinity was the most important environmental factor influencing the compositions of the total archaeal community and the Euryarchaeota population, while it did not show significant influence on the distribution of the Woesearchaeota and Thaumarchaeota populations. Taken together, this survey expands our current knowledge on the ecology of lacustrine archaea and give clues for studying the archael role in biogeochemical cycles in lakes.	2018	35	10.1080/01490451.2017.1382611
Zhang, SY; Su, JQ; Sun, GX; Yang, YF; Zhao, Y; Ding, JJ; Chen, YS; Shen, Y; Zhu, GB; Rensing, C; Zhu, YG	Land scale biogeography of arsenic biotransformation genes in estuarine wetland	ENVIRONMENTAL ARSENIC IN A CHANGING WORLD (AS2018)	Our study demonstrated that genes involved in As biotransformation were characterized by high abundance and diversity in estuarine sediments at low As levels across Southeastern China. The functional microbial communities showed a significant decrease in similarity along the geographic distance, with higher turnover rates than taxonomic microbial communities based on the similarities of 16S rRNA genes. Further investigation with niche -based models showed that deterministic processes played primary roles in shaping both functional and taxonomic microbial communities. Temperature, pH, total nitrogen concentration, carbon/nitrogen ratio and ferric iron concentration rather than As content in these sediments were significantly linked to functional microbial communities, while sediment temperature and pH were linked to taxonomic microbial communities. We proposed several possible mechanisms to explain these results.	2018		
Moeller, AH; Suzuki, TA; Lin, D; Lacey, EA; Wasser, SK; Nachman, MW	Dispersal limitation promotes the diversification of the mammalian gut microbiota	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	The gut bacterial communities of mammals have profound effects on host fitness, but the processes that generate and maintain gut bacterial diversity remain poorly understood. We mapped compositional variation (i.e., beta-diversity) in the gut microbiotas of 136 pairs of wild mammalian species living throughout the Americas to assess how the distribution of mammals across geographic space influences the diversification of their gut bacteria. Comparing the gut microbiotas of sympatric and allopatric mammalian populations provided insights into the flow of gut bacteria within and between mammalian communities, revealing that spatial limits on bacterial dispersal promote beta-diversity between the gut microbiotas of mammalian species. Each geographic locale displayed a unique gutmicrobiota composition that could not be fully explained by the diets and phylogenetic histories of the resident mammalian hosts, indicating that some gut bacteria are geographically restricted. Across the western hemisphere, the compositional overlap between the gut microbiotas of allopatric mammalian populations decayed exponentially with the geographic distance separating the hosts. The relationship between geographic distances among hosts and compositional differences among their gut microbiotas was independent of dietary and phylogenetic divergence among hosts. Within mammalian communities, we observed widespread sharing of gut bacteria between predator-prey host-species pairs, indicating horizontal transfer of gut bacteria through mammalian food chains. Collectively, these results indicate that compositional differences between the gut microbiotas of mammalian taxa are generated and maintained by limits to bacterial dispersal imposed by physical distance between hosts.	2017	114	10.1073/pnas.1700122114
Zhao, F; Filker, S; Xu, KD; Huang, PP; Zheng, S	Patterns and Drivers of Vertical Distribution of the Ciliate Community from the Surface to the Abyssopelagic Zone in the Western Pacific Ocean	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	The deep sea is one of the largest but least understood ecosystems on earth. Knowledge about the diversity and distribution patterns as well as drivers of microbial eukaryote (including ciliates) along the water column, particularly below the photic zone, is scarce. In this study, we investigated the diversity of pelagic ciliates, the main group of marine microeukaryotes, their vertical distribution from the surface to the abyssopelagic zone, as well as their horizontal distribution over a distance of 1,300 km in the Western Pacific Ocean, using high-throughput DNA and cDNA (complementary DNA) sequencing. No distance-decay relationship could be detected along the horizontal scale; instead, a distinct vertical distribution within the ciliate communities was revealed. The alpha diversity of the ciliate communities in the deep chlorophyll maximum (DCM) and the 200 m layer turned out to be significantly higher compared with the other water layers. The ciliate communities in the 200 m water layer appeared to be more similar to those in deeper layers from 1,000 m to about 5,000 m than to the surface and DCM ciliate communities. Dominant species in the bathypelagic and abyssopelagic zone, particularly some parasites, were also detected in the 200 m layer, but were almost absent in the surface layer. The 200 m layer, therefore, seems to be an important species bank for deep ocean layers. Statistical analyses further revealed significant effects of temperature and chlorophyll a on the partitioning of ciliate diversity, indicating that environmental factors are a stronger force in shaping marine pelagic ciliate communities than the geographic distance.	2017	8	10.3389/fmicb.2017.02559
Miura, T; Sanchez, R; Castaneda, LE; Godoy, K; Barbosa, O	Is microbial terroir related to geographic distance between vineyards?	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY REPORTS	While there are substantial studies suggesting that characteristics of wine are related to regional microbial community composition (microbial terroir), there has been little discussion about what factors affect variation in regional microbial community composition. In this study, we compared the microbial community composition of leaves and berries of a grape variety (Carmenere) from six different Chilean vineyards within 35 km of each other. In order to determine relationships between spatial proximity and microbial compositional dissimilarity, we sequenced amplicons of the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region for fungi and 16S rRNA gene for bacteria. Results showed that both the fungal and the bacterial community compositions of the studied vineyards differed, but this difference was much clearer in fungi than in bacteria. In addition, while bacterial community dissimilarity was not correlated with geographic distance, the leaf and berry fungal community dissimilarities between locations increased with geographic distance. This indicates that spatial processes play an important role in structuring the biogeographic pattern of grape-associated fungal communities at local scales, which might in turn contribute to the local identity of wine.	2017	9	10.1111/1758-2229.12589
Wang, YP; Guo, XH; Zheng, PF; Zou, SB; Li, GH; Gong, J	Distinct seasonality of chytrid-dominated benthic fungal communities in the neritic oceans (Bohai Sea and North Yellow Sea)	FUNGAL ECOLOGY	Benthic fungal diversities in Bohai Sea and North Yellow Sea were investigated using pyrosequencing of 18S rDNA. Overall, Chytridiomycota dominated, followed by Basidiomycota, Ascomycota and Cryptomycota, in terms of alpha diversities and relative abundance. The beta diversity of benthic fungi showed a significant seasonality but no regional differences, accounted for by contrasting relative abundances of Chytridiomycota and Basidiomycota. Significantly seasonal changes in Chytridiomycota and Basidiomycota assemblage structure were also observed, but not for Ascomycota and Cryptomycota. Environmental filtering was more important than water depth and geographic distance in shaping the distribution of benthic fungi in the neritic oceans. The overall fungal beta diversity co-varied with concentration of chlorophyll a, pH, and salinity, distance from land, and water depth. The assemblage structure of benthic Chytridiomycota, Basidiomycota, Ascomycota and Cryptomycota co-varied with different sets of environmental parameters, suggesting their niche differentiations in the coastal sediments. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd and British Mycological Society. All rights reserved.	2017	30	10.1016/j.funeco.2017.08.008
Zhou, X; Tian, L; Zhang, JF; Ma, LN; Li, XJ; Tian, CJ	Rhizospheric fungi and their link with the nitrogen-fixing Frankia harbored in host plant Hippophae rhamnoides L	JOURNAL OF BASIC MICROBIOLOGY	Sea buckthorn (Hippophae rhamnoides L.) is a pioneer plant used for land reclamation and an appropriate material for studying the interactions of symbiotic microorganisms because of its nitrogen-fixing root nodules and mycorrhiza. We used high-throughput sequencing to reveal the diversities and community structures of rhizospheric fungi and their link with nitrogen-fixing Frankia harbored in sea buckthorn collected along an altitude gradient from the Qinghai Tibet Plateau to interior areas. We found that the fungal diversities and compositions varied between different sites. Ascomycota, Basidiomycota, and Zygomycota were the dominant phyla. The distribution of sea buckthorn rhizospheric fungi was driven by both environmental factors and the geographic distance. Among all examined soil characteristics, altitude, AP, and pH were found to have significant (p<0.05) effect on the rhizospheric fungal community. The rhizospheric fungal communities became more distinct as the distance increased. Moreover, co-inertia analysis identified significant co-structures between Frankia and AMF communities in the rhizosphere of sea buckthorn. We conclude that at the large scale, there are certain linkages between nitrogen-fixing bacteria and the AMF expressed in the distributional pattern.	2017	57	10.1002/jobm.201700312
Glassman, SI; Wang, IJ; Bruns, TD	Environmental filtering by pH and soil nutrients drives community assembly in fungi at fine spatial scales	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	Whether niche processes, like environmental filtering, or neutral processes, like dispersal limitation, are the primary forces driving community assembly is a central question in ecology. Here, we use a natural experimental system of isolated tree islands to test whether environment or geography primarily structures fungal community composition at fine spatial scales. This system consists of isolated pairs of two distantly related, congeneric pine trees established at varying distances from each other and the forest edge, allowing us to disentangle the effects of geographic distance vs. host and edaphic environment on associated fungal communities. We identified fungal community composition with Illumina sequencing of ITS amplicons, measured all relevant environmental parameters for each tree-including tree age, size and soil chemistry-and calculated geographic distances from each tree to all others and to the nearest forest edge. We applied generalized dissimilarity modelling to test whether total and ectomycorrhizal fungal (EMF) communities were primarily structured by geographic or environmental filtering. Our results provide strong evidence that as in many other organisms, niche and neutral processes both contribute significantly to turnover in community composition in fungi, but environmental filtering plays the dominant role in structuring both free-living and symbiotic fungal communities at fine spatial scales. In our study system, we found pH and organic matter primarily drive environmental filtering in total soil fungal communities and that pH and cation exchange capacity-and, surprisingly, not host species-were the largest factors affecting EMF community composition. These findings support an emerging paradigm that pH may play a central role in the assembly of all soilmediated systems.	2017	26	10.1111/mec.14414
Wang, JM; Zhang, TH; Li, LP; Li, JW; Feng, YM; Lu, Q	The Patterns and Drivers of Bacterial and Fungal beta-Diversity in a Typical Dryland Ecosystem of Northwest China	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Dryland ecosystems cover more than 30% of the terrestrial area of China, while processes that shape the biogeographic patterns of bacterial and fungal beta-diversity have rarely been evaluated synchronously. To compare the biogeographic patterns and its drivers of bacterial and fungal p-diversity, we collected 62 soil samples from a typical dryland region of northwest China. We assessed bacterial and fungal communities by sequencing bacterial 16S rRNA gene and fungal ITS data. Meanwhile, the beta-diversity was decomposed into two components: species replacement (species turnover) and nestedness to further explore the bacterial and fungal beta-diversity patterns and its causes. The results show that both bacterial and fungal beta-diversity were derived almost entirely from species turnover rather than from species nestedness. Distance-decay relationships confirmed that the geographic patterns of bacterial and fungal beta-diversity were significantly different. Environmental factors had the dominant influence on both the bacterial and fungal beta-diversity and species turnover, however, the role of geographic distance varied across bacterial and fungal communities. Furthermore, both bacterial and fungal nestedness did not significantly respond to the environmental and geographic distance. Our findings suggest that the different response of bacterial and fungal species turnover to dispersal limitation and other, unknown processes may result in different biogeographic patterns of bacterial and fungal beta-diversity in the drylands of northwest China. Together, we highlight that the drivers of beta-diversity patterns vary between bacterial and fungal communities, and microbial beta-diversity are driven by multiple factors in the drylands of northwest China.	2017	8	10.3389/fmicb.2017.02126
Xia, XM; Guo, W; Liu, HB	Basin Scale Variation on the Composition and Diversity of Archaea in the Pacific Ocean	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	The Archaea are a widely distributed group of prokaryotes that inhabit and thrive in many different environments. In the sea, they play key roles in various global biogeochemical processes. Here, in order to investigate the vertical profiles of archaeal community across a large geographic distance, the compositions of archaeal communities in seven seawater columns in the Pacific Ocean were investigated using high throughput 454 pyrosequencing of the 16S rRNA gene. The surface archaeal communities showed lower diversity and greater variability than those in the deeper layers. Two of the major archaeal phyla that displayed different depth preferences were Thaumarchaeota and Euryarchaeota. The majority of Thaumarchaeota belonged to Marine Group I (MGI), which had high relative abundance in deep water. In contrast, Euryarchaeota, which mainly consisted of Marine Group II (MGII) and III (MGIII), were dominant in the surface layer. Compared with MGI and MGII, MGIII were less abundant in seawater and generally absent from the surface water of the subarctic Pacific. In addition, niche separation in the MGI, MGII, and MGIII subgroups was also observed. For example, MGI.C and MGII. A (the major subgroups of MGI and MGII, respectively) displayed a strong negative correlation with each other. The highest level of archaeal diversity was found in the core of an oxygen minimum zone (OMZ) located off Costa Rica, which resulted from the co-occurrence of both anaerobic and aerobic archaea. For example, methanotrophic archaea ANME-2, methanogenic archaea and several sediment origin archaea, such as Marine Benthic Group A (MBGA) and Bathyarchaeota, were all detected at relatively high abundance in the OMZ. Together, our findings indicate that vertical heterogeneities along water columns and latitudinal differentiation in the surface waters are ubiquitous features of archaeal communities in the Pacific Ocean, and the OMZ off Costa Rica is an archaeal biodiversity hot-spot.	2017	8	10.3389/fmicb.2017.02057
Reddy, KE; Thu, HT; Yoo, MS; Ramya, M; Reddy, BA; Lien, NTK; Trang, NTP; Duong, BTT; Lee, HJ; Kang, SW; Quyen, DV	Comparative Genomic Analysis for Genetic Variation in Sacbrood Virus of Apis cerana and Apis mellifera Honeybees From Different Regions of Vietnam	JOURNAL OF INSECT SCIENCE	Sacbrood virus (SBV) is one of the most common viral infections of honeybees. The entire genome sequence for nine SBV infecting honeybees, Apis cerana and Apis mellifera, in Vietnam, namely AcSBV-Viet1, AcSBV-Viet2, AcSBVViet3, AmSBV-Viet4, AcSBV-Viet5, AmSBV-Viet6, AcSBV-Viet7, AcSBV-Viet8, and AcSBV-Viet9, was determined. These sequences were aligned with seven previously reported complete genome sequences of SBV from other countries, and various genomic regions were compared. The Vietnamese SBVs (VN-SBVs) shared 91-99% identity with each other, and shared 89-94% identity with strains from other countries. The open reading frames (ORFs) of the VN-SBV genomes differed greatly from those of SBVs from other countries, especially in their VP1 sequences. The AmSBV-Viet6 and AcSBV-Viet9 genome encodes 17 more amino acids within this region than the other VN-SBVs. In a phylogenetic analysis, the strains AmSBV-Viet4, AcSBV-Viet2, and AcSBV-Viet3 were clustered in group with AmSBV-UK, AmSBV-Kor21, and AmSBV-Kor19 strains. Whereas, the strains AmSBV-Viet6 and AcSBV-Viet7 clustered separately with the AcSBV strains from Korea and AcSBV-VietSBM2. And the strains AcSBV-Viet8, AcSBV-Viet1, AcSBV-Viet5, and AcSBV-Viet9 clustered with the AcSBV-India, AcSBV-Kor and AcSBV-VietSBM2. In a Simplot graph, the VN-SBVs diverged stronger in their ORF regions than in their 5  or 3  untranslated regions. The VN-SBVs possess genetic characteristics which are more similar to the Asian AcSBV strains than to AmSBV-UK strain. Taken together, our data indicate that host specificity, geographic distance, and viral cross-infections between different bee species may explain the genetic diversity among the VN-SBVs in A. cerana and A. mellifera and other SBV strains.	2017	17	10.1093/jisesa/iex077
Tong, XZ; Leung, MHY; Wilkins, D; Lee, PKH	City-scale distribution and dispersal routes of mycobiome in residences	MICROBIOME	Background: Pathogenic and allergenic bacteria and fungi within the indoors can bring detrimental health effects on the occupants. We previously studied the bacterial communities found in households located throughout Hong Kong as well as the skin surfaces of the occupants. As a complementary study, here, we investigated the fungal communities (mycobiome) in the same residences and occupants and identified factors that are important in shaping their diversity, composition, distribution, and dispersal patterns. Results: We observed that common skin and environmental fungal taxa dominated air, surface, and skin samples. Individual and touch frequency strongly and respectively shaped the fungal community structure on occupant skin and residential surfaces. Cross-domain analysis revealed positive correlations between bacterial and fungal community diversity and composition, especially for skin samples. SourceTracker prediction suggested that some fungi can be transferred bidirectionally between surfaces and skin sites, but bacteria showed a stronger dispersal potential. In addition, we detected a modest but significant association between indoor airborne bacterial composition and geographic distance on a city-wide scale, a pattern not observed for fungi. However, the distance-decay effects were more pronounced at shorter local scale for both communities, and airflow might play a prominent role in driving the spatial variation of the indoor airborne mycobiome. Conclusions: Our study suggests that occupants exert a weaker influence on surface fungal communities compared to bacterial communities, and local environmental factors, including air currents, appear to be stronger determinants of indoor airborne mycobiome than ventilation strategy, human occupancy, and room type.	2017	5	10.1186/s40168-017-0346-7
McHugh, TA; Compson, Z; van Gestel, N; Hayer, M; Ballard, L; Haverty, M; Hines, J; Irvine, N; Krassner, D; Lyons, T; Musta, EJ; Schiff, M; Zint, P; Schwartz, E	Climate controls prokaryotic community composition in desert soils of the southwestern United States	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Aridisols are the dominant soil type in drylands, which occupy one-third of Earths terrestrial surface. We examined controls on biogeographical patterns of Aridisol prokaryotic (bacterial and archaeal) communities at a regional scale by comparing communities from 100 Aridisols throughout the southwestern United States using high-throughput sequencing of the 16S rRNA gene. We found that microbial communities differed among global biomes and deserts of the Southwest. Differences among biomes were driven by differences in taxonomic identities, whereas differences among deserts of the Southwest were driven by differences in relative sequence abundance. Desert communities were dominated by Actinobacteria, Proteobacteria and Crenarchaeota, supporting the notion of a core set of abundant taxa in desert soils. Our findings contrast with studies showing little taxonomic overlap at the OTU level (97% sequence similarity) across large spatial scales, as we found similar to 90% of taxa in at least two of the three deserts. Geographic distance structured prokaryotic communities indirectly through the influence of climate and soil properties. Structural equation modeling suggests that climate exerts a stronger influence than soil properties in shaping the composition of Aridisol microbial communities, with annual heat moisture index (an aridity metric) being the strongest climate driver. Annual heat moisture index was associated with decreased microbial diversity and richness. If the Desert Southwest becomes hotter and drier as predicted, these findings suggest that prokaryotic diversity and richness in Aridisols will decline.	2017	93	10.1093/femsec/fix116
Duarte, S; Cassio, F; Pascoal, C	Environmental drivers are more important for structuring fungal decomposer communities than the geographic distance between streams	LIMNETICA	One of the major challenges in microbial ecology is to unravel the mechanisms that operate at the spatial-temporal scales structuring microbial communities and how these communities respond to environmental change. It has been argued that the biogeography of microorganisms solely reflects the influence of contemporary environmental variation and everything is everywhere. Since the discovery of the key role that decomposer fungi, in particular aquatic hyphomycetes, play in leaf-litter decomposition in streams, mycologists were interested in deciphering several ecological aspects, including the factors that shape the distribution of these communities in streams. At local and regional scales, community structure is affected by several abiotic factors such as pH, temperature, conductivity and nutrients in the stream water, but at a global scale, community similarity also decreases as a function of the geographic distance. However, very few attempts have been conducted to assess the relative influence of environmental versus geographic factors in structuring decomposer fungi in streams. In the current study, we attempted to fulfil this lacuna by quantifying the relative contributions of environmental factors versus spatial factors to community composition, by using data of species composition and environmental (temperature, pH, conductivity and nutrient concentrations) and spatial variables (latitude, longitude and altitude), collected during a recent extensive literature search. Alfa diversity was negatively affected by pH, conductivity, nitrates and phosphorus concentrations in the stream water. On the other hand, a unimodal type relationship was found between species richness and temperature, latitude or altitude. Beta-diversity was also strongly influenced by environmental factors, in particular conductivity, nitrates and phosphorus concentrations, and pH in stream water, but also by the geographic location (latitude and longitude) of the study sites. However, when the effects were disentangled a significant effect was found only for environmental variables. This suggests that stream dwelling decomposer fungi may exhibit biogeographic patterns, but as proposed by Baas-Becking the environment selects and is in part responsible for the spatial variation of stream-dwelling decomposer fungi. However, our conclusions should be taken cautiously because our data were extracted from the literature and reflect a geographical bias in the collection effort. Thus, future investigations should involve broad-scale coordinated surveys, incorporating a larger number of streams in different latitudinal bands and along large environmental gradients, to better assess the relative importance of environmental and geographical factors in structuring fungal communities in streams.	2017	36	10.23818/limn.36.17
Zhang, KP; Adams, JM; Shi, Y; Yang, T; Sun, RB; He, D; Ni, YY; Chu, HY	Environment and geographic distance differ in relative importance for determining fungal community of rhizosphere and bulk soil	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Rhizospheric fungi play major roles in both natural and agricultural ecosystems. However, little is known about the determinants of their diversity and biogeographic patterns. Here, we compared fungal communities in rhizosphere and bulk soils of wheat fields in the North China Plain. The rhizosphere had a lower fungal diversity (observed OTUs and Chao1) than bulk soil, and a distinct fungal community structure in rhizosphere compared with bulk soil. The relative importance of environmental factors and geographic distance for fungal distribution differed between rhizosphere and bulk soil. Environmental factors were the primary cause of variations in total fungal community and major fungal phyla in bulk soil. By contrast, fungal communities in soils loosely attached to roots were predictable from both environmental factors and influences of geographic distance. Communities in soils tightly attached to roots were mainly determined by geographic distance. Our results suggest that both contemporary environment processes (present-day abiotic and biotic environment characters) and historical processes (spatial isolation, dispersal limitation occurred in the past) dominate variations of fungal communities in wheat fields, but their relative importance of all these processes depends on the proximity of fungal community to the plant roots.	2017	19	10.1111/1462-2920.13865
Cao, Y; Wang, ET; Tong, WJ; Qiao, YJ; Zhao, L; Chen, WM; Wei, GH	Population structure of Rhizobium etli-like strains nodulated with Phaseolus vulgaris in two ecoregions of China	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	Population genetics could reveal the evolutionary relationships of different populations in the same bacterial species or closely related species. To estimate the evolutionary history of bean-nodulating Rhizobium etli-like bacteria in China, the genetic diversity and population structures of 77 strains belonging to seven genomic species isolated from eight sites in the temperate and subtropical regions were investigated in this study. As results, seven clades were defined in the phylogenetic network based upon the sequences of eight housekeeping and adaptation genes, in which some strains of different genospecies were intermingled due to the effects of adaptation genes on the phylogeny of chromosome. The close phylogenetic relationships of the tested strains with a Columbian strain R. etli CIAT 652, and their deeply separating from the Mexican reference strains demonstrated the evolution of Chinese bean-nodulating bacteria directly from the ancestors of South America. Distinct populations with varied haplotype diversity and nucleotide diversity were observed in the alkaline, strong acid and neutral-acid soils, and they may be affected by natural selection in the alkaline strong acid soils, or by the neutral selection in other sampling sites. The isolates in the neutral and acid soils were admixture containing more of the ancestral lineages similar to the American strains, while the isolates in strong acid (Chutan) and alkaline (Daqing) soils formed independent clusters. Soil factors shaped the rhizobial populations stronger than the geographic distance. Moreover, recombination contributed more in the evolution of R. etli-related populations than mutation. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2017	112	10.1016/j.soilbio.2017.04.017
Yang, T; Adams, JM; Shi, Y; He, JS; Jing, X; Chen, LT; Tedersoo, L; Chu, HY	Soil fungal diversity in natural grasslands of the Tibetan Plateau: associations with plant diversity and productivity	NEW PHYTOLOGIST	Previous studies have revealed inconsistent correlations between fungal diversity and plant diversity from local to global scales, and there is a lack of information about the diversity-diversity and productivity-diversity relationships for fungi in alpine regions. Here we investigated the internal relationships between soil fungal diversity, plant diversity and productivity across 60 grassland sites on the Tibetan Plateau, using Illumina sequencing of the internal transcribed spacer 2 (ITS2) region for fungal identification. Fungal alpha and beta diversities were best explained by plant alpha and beta diversities, respectively, when accounting for environmental drivers and geographic distance. The best ordinary least squares (OLS) multiple regression models, partial least squares regression (PLSR) and variation partitioning analysis (VPA) indicated that plant richness was positively correlated with fungal richness. However, no correlation between plant richness and fungal richness was evident for fungal functional guilds when analyzed individually. Plant productivity showed a weaker relationship to fungal diversity which was intercorrelated with other factors such as plant diversity, and was thus excluded as a main driver. Our study points to a predominant effect of plant diversity, along with other factors such as carbon : nitrogen (C : N) ratio, soil phosphorus and dissolved organic carbon, on soil fungal richness.	2017	215	10.1111/nph.14606
Aizenberg-Gershtein, Y; Izhaki, I; Halpern, M	From Microhabitat of Floral Nectar Up to Biogeographic Scale: Novel Insights on Neutral and Niche Bacterial Assemblies	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Microbial model systems are very useful in addressing macro-ecological questions. Two major theories exist to date, to explain the community structure of organisms: (1) the dispersal (neutral) assembly theory which predicts that community similarity decreases with increasing geographic distance, independent of any environmental variables, and (2) the niche assembly theory which predicts that the communities compositions are more homogeneous among sites characterized by similar environmental conditions. Our study system offered a unique opportunity to investigate the relative role of environmental conditions and spatial factors in shaping community composition. We explored the bacterial community composition (BCC) of Nicotiana glauca floral nectar using the Illumina MiSeq technique at three spatial scales (plants, site, and region) and two taxonomic levels. Floral nectar samples were collected from 69 N. glauca plants at 11 different sites along a 200-km transect in Israel, along three biogeographic regions. A distance decay of BCC was found among all plants throughout Israel, but such pattern was not found among either sites or biogeographical regions. The BCC was also governed by environmental conditions in all examined scales (from the plant up to the biogeographical region). We also found that taxonomic resolution (89 and 97% sequence identity for clustering operational taxonomic units) affected the results of these BCC analyses. Hence, our study revealed that the BCC in N. glauca floral nectar is shaped by both the environmental conditions and the distance between plants, depending on the sampling scale under examination as well as by taxonomic resolution.	2017	74	10.1007/s00248-017-0935-9
Liu, YQ; Vick-Majors, TJ; Priscu, JC; Yao, TD; Kang, SC; Liu, KS; Cong, ZY; Xiong, JB; Li, Y	Biogeography of cryoconite bacterial communities on glaciers of the Tibetan Plateau	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Cryoconite holes, water-filled pockets containing biological and mineralogical deposits that form on glacier surfaces, play important roles in glacier mass balance, glacial geochemistry and carbon cycling. The presence of cryoconite material decreases surface albedo and accelerates glacier mass loss, a problem of particular importance in the rapidly melting Tibetan Plateau. No studies have addressed the microbial community composition of cryoconite holes and their associated ecosystem processes on Tibetan glaciers. To further enhance our understanding of these glacial ecosystems on the Tibetan Plateau and to examine their role in carbon cycling as the glaciers respond to climate change, we explored the bacterial communities within cryoconite holes associated with three climatically distinct Tibetan Plateau glaciers using Illumina sequencing of the V4 region of the 16S rRNA gene. Cryoconite bacterial communities were dominated by Cyanobacteria, Chloroflexi, Betaproteobacteria, Bacteroidetes and Actinobacteria. Cryoconite bacterial community composition varied according to their geographical locations, exhibiting significant differences among glaciers studied. Regional beta diversity was driven by the interaction between geographic distance and environmental variables; the latter contributed more than geographic distance to the variation in cryoconite microbial communities. Our study is the first to describe the regional-scale spatial variability and to identify the factors that drive regional variability of cryoconite bacterial communities on the Tibetan Plateau.	2017	93	10.1093/femsec/fix072
Zhang, SY; Su, JQ; Sun, GX; Yang, YF; Zhao, Y; Ding, JJ; Chen, YS; Shen, Y; Zhu, GB; Rensing, C; Zhu, YG	Land scale biogeography of arsenic biotransformation genes in estuarine wetland	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	As an analogue of phosphorus, arsenic (As) has a biogeochemical cycle coupled closely with other key elements on the Earth, such as iron, sulfate and phosphate. It has been documented that microbial genes associated with As biotransformation are widely present in As-rich environments. Nonetheless, their presence in natural environment with low As levels remains unclear. To address this issue, we investigated the abundance levels and diversities of aioA, arrA, arsC and arsM genes in estuarine sediments at low As levels across Southeastern China to uncover biogeographic patterns at a large spatial scale. Unexpectedly, genes involved in As biotransformation were characterized by high abundance and diversity. The functional microbial communities showed a significant decrease in similarity along the geographic distance, with higher turnover rates than taxonomic microbial communities based on the similarities of 16S rRNA genes. Further investigation with niche-based models showed that deterministic processes played primary roles in shaping both functional and taxonomic microbial communities. Temperature, pH, total nitrogen concentration, carbon/ nitrogen ratio and ferric iron concentration rather than As content in these sediments were significantly linked to functional microbial communities, while sediment temperature and pH were linked to taxonomic microbial communities. We proposed several possible mechanisms to explain these results.	2017	19	10.1111/1462-2920.13775
Zhao, DY; Xu, HM; Zeng, J; Cao, XY; Huang, R; Shen, F; Yu, ZB	Community composition and assembly processes of the free-living and particle-attached bacteria in Taihu Lake	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Although previous studies have compared the diversity and community composition of free-living (FL) and particle-attached (PA) bacterial groups in marine ecosystems, few studies have focused on the FL and PA bacterial communities in large and shallow eutrophic lakes. Furthermore, the assembly processes of the FL and PA bacterial communities have not been investigated. To illustrate the differences between PA (>= 5.0 mu m) and FL (0.22- 5.0 mu m) bacterial communities, samples were collected from 13 different sites in Taihu Lake, China. A higher diversity of the PA bacterial group than that of the FL group was observed, and significant differences in bacterial community composition between FL and PA groups were found (analysis of similarity, R = 0.2425, P < 0.001). Moreover, the two groups exhibited different relationships with environmental factors and geographic distance. Environmental factors played more important roles in affecting the FL bacterial community. A deterministic process was found as the primary factor driving the community of FL bacteria in Taihu Lake. However, the PA bacterial group was characterized by insignificant results of partial Mantel tests, which indicated that the community assembly was controlled by unknown processes.	2017	93	10.1093/femsec/fix062
Wang, XB; Lu, XT; Yao, J; Wang, ZW; Deng, Y; Cheng, WX; Zhou, JZ; Han, XG	Habitat-specific patterns and drivers of bacterial beta-diversity in Chinas drylands	ISME JOURNAL	The existence of biogeographic patterns among most free-living microbial taxa has been well established, yet little is known about the underlying mechanisms that shape these patterns. Here, we examined soil bacterial beta-diversity across different habitats in the drylands of northern China. We evaluated the relative importance of environmental factors versus geographic distance to a distance-decay relationship, which would be explained by the relative effect of basic ecological processes recognized as drivers of diversity patterns in macrobial theoretical models such as selection and dispersal. Although the similarity of bacterial communities significantly declined with increasing geographic distance, the distance-decay slope and the relative importance of factors driving distance-decay patterns varied across different habitats. A strong distance-decay relationship was observed in the alpine grassland, where the community similarity was influenced only by the environmental factors. In contrast, geographic distance was solely responsible for community similarity in the desert. Even the average compositional similarity among locations in the desert was distinctly lower compared with those in other habitats. We found no evidence that dispersal limitation strongly influenced the beta-diversity of bacterial communities in the desert grassland and typical grassland. Together, our results provide robust evidence of habitat specificity for microbial diversity patterns and their underlying drivers. Our findings suggest that microorganisms also have multiple drivers of diversity patterns and some of which may be parallel to some fundamental processes for explaining biodiversity patterns in macroorganisms.	2017	11	10.1038/ismej.2017.11
Zhang, S; Song, WZ; Yu, M; Lin, XZ	Comparative genomics analysis of five Psychrobacter strains isolated from world-wide habitats reveal high intra-genus variations	EXTREMOPHILES	Psychrobacter has been regarded as an important genus for bacterial cold adaptation studies. However, members of this genus are highly varied in terms of both cold adaptability and genome content. To get an understanding of the diversity of members of this genus, five Psychrobacter strains (G, K5, 273-4, PAMC21119 and PRwf-1), with publicly available complete/draft genome, were selected and comprehensive comparative genomics analyses were performed among them. The closest phylogenetic relationship, highest average nucleotide identity (96.78%) and best sequence synteny were identified between strains G and K5. These findings suggest they belong to the same species, despite the long geographic distance between them (Antarctic and Siberia). 4542 gene clusters in total were identified from the five genomes, and of which 1424 were shared by all of them. The number of genes unique to strains G, K5, 273-4, PAMC21119 and PRwf-1 are 183, 188, 300, 637 and 665, respectively. COG assignment revealed their differences in gene content related to stress response. The extensive sequence rearrangements and the large number of genes unique to strain PAMC21119 and PRwf-1 suggest they may have experienced a high level of gene exchanges in the permafrost soil and the surface of fish skin.	2017	21	10.1007/s00792-017-0927-1
Yao, MJ; Rui, JP; Niu, HS; Hedenec, P; Li, JB; He, ZL; Wang, JM; Cao, WD; Li, XZ	The differentiation of soil bacterial communities along a precipitation and temperature gradient in the eastern Inner Mongolia steppe	CATENA	Understanding the differentiation of soil bacterial communities under precipitation and temperature gradients is crucial for assessing the impacts of environmental filters on ecosystem structure and function. Here we investigated spatial variations of bacterial communities along a precipitation and temperature transect in the eastern Inner Mongolia steppe, China. The aims are to understand the biogeographic pattern and key drivers shaping soil bacterial communities along the transect. Our results shoved that the soil bacterial community along the 451-km transect exhibited the distance-decay relationship, decreasing in community similarity with geographic distance. Obvious changes in the bacterial community structure occurred at an annual precipitation from 215 to 261 mm, which was close to the boundary between arid and semi-arid systems. The relative abundances of Proteobacteria, Bacteroidetes, and Acidobacteria increased with precipitation, while those of Actinobacteria, Chloroflexi, and Gemmatimonadetes decreased. Environmental filtering was observed to be the key in shaping bacterial biogeographic patterns, and climate conditions exert indirect effects on soil bacterial communities mainly through direct effects on soil properties. Soil pH and plant coverage were important to soil bacterial communities in both arid and semi-arid steppes. Our findings provided insights for understanding the linkages among geographic distance, environmental filters, and soil bacterial communities in Eurasian steppe ecosystems. (C) 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2017	152	10.1016/j.catena.2017.01.007
Zhao, F; Xu, KD	Distribution of Ciliates in Intertidal Sediments across Geographic Distances: A Molecular View	PROTIST	The estimation of the diversity and geographic distribution of protists in particular ciliates has long been an ongoing debate. We estimated the distribution of ciliates in intertidal sediments with geographic distance ranging from 10 cm to 1,000 km, using high-throughput DNA sequencing. Higher community similarity, in particular that of rare ciliate taxa, occurred between replicates than between sites. Statistical analyses showed that the community dissimilarities of both abundant and moderately abundant ciliates had correlations with geographic distance at the scales of 50 m, 200 km and 1000 km, indicating a distance-decay relationship. No significant correlation was observed for rare taxa. The analysis of Bray-Curtis similarity showed a higher pairwise community similarity in abundant taxa than in moderately abundant taxa, and that in rare taxa was the lowest. Abundant taxa usually can disperse in a wider range than rare taxa, though their distribution is restricted by distance to some extent. Rare taxa are potentially more sensitive to changing environments, but no distance-decay relationship could be observed. The data indicate contrasting patterns of geographic distribution of the abundant and rare ciliate taxa and a weak distance-decay relationship for relatively abundant taxa at a scale over 50 m. (C) 2017 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.	2017	168	10.1016/j.protis.2017.01.001
Kang, LL; Jiang, QQ; Tan, CH	Remarkable advocates: An investigation of geographic distance and social capital for crowdfunding	INFORMATION & MANAGEMENT	This study investigates the advocates of crowdfunding projects. Advocates refer to individuals who have invested in a project, and the information of such endorsement is spread through their social networks. By using a combined set of sizable data, this research empirically examines the relationships between two attributes of advocates, namely their geographical distance and social capital, and funding performance. Results reveal that higher funding can be secured with advocates who are (1) of further geographical distance and (2) of higher social capital. Additionally, the relationship between advocates social capital and funding performance is further enhanced with a lower geographical propinquity. (C) 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2017	54	10.1016/j.im.2016.09.001
Whittaker, KA; Rynearson, TA	Evidence for environmental and ecological selection in a microbe with no geographic limits to gene flow	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	The ability for organisms to disperse throughout their environment is thought to strongly influence population structure and thus evolution of diversity within species. A decades-long debate surrounds processes that generate and support high microbial diversity, particularly in the ocean. The debate concerns whether diversification occurs primarily through geographic partitioning (where distance limits gene flow) or through environmental selection, and remains unresolved due to lack of empirical data. Here we show that gene flow in a diatom, an ecologically important eukaryotic microbe, is not limited by global-scale geographic distance. Instead, environmental and ecological selection likely play a more significant role than dispersal in generating and maintaining diversity. We detected significantly diverged populations (FST > 0.130) and discovered temporal genetic variability at a single site that was on par with spatial genetic variability observed over distances of 15,000 km. Relatedness among populations was decoupled from geographic distance across the global ocean and instead, correlated significantly with water temperature and whole-community chlorophyll a. Correlations with temperature point to the importance of environmental selection in structuring populations. Correlations with whole-community chlorophyll a, a proxy for autotrophic biomass, suggest that ecological selection via interactions with other plankton may generate and maintain population genetic structure in marine microbes despite globalscale dispersal. Here, we provide empirical evidence for global gene flow in a marine eukaryotic microbe, suggesting that everything holds the potential to be everywhere, with environmental and ecological selection rather than geography or dispersal dictating the structure and evolution of diversity over space and time.	2017	114	10.1073/pnas.1612346114
Marino, CM; Pawlik, JR; Lopez-Legentil, S; Erwin, PM	Latitudinal variation in the microbiome of the sponge Ircinia campana correlates with host haplotype but not anti-predatory chemical defense	MARINE ECOLOGY PROGRESS SERIES	Many marine sponges host diverse symbiotic microbial communities that have been implicated in the production of secondary metabolites. These metabolites may defend the host sponge from potential predators. Variability in symbiont communities across the range of the host sponge could alter levels of chemical defense. To investigate the relationship between symbiont composition and chemical defense, the microbiomes and palatability of tissue samples from Ircinia campana were characterized from 5 sites along a latitudinal gradient spanning temperate (South Atlantic Bight, SAB) and tropical (Caribbean) regions. Terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis and Illumina sequencing of 16S ribosomal RNA genes revealed that I. campana from different locations contained significantly distinct microbiomes and exhibited a consistent relationship of lower symbiont similarity over greater geographic distance (i.e. distance-decay). However, crude organic extracts of all samples of I. campana were unpalatable to assay fish Thalassoma bifasciatum in laboratory assays, indicating no difference in chemical defense across locations. Distinct haplotypes of I. campana were detected in populations from the SAB and Caribbean, correlating with the observed patterns of latitudinal variation in microbial symbiont communities. Our findings indicate that I. campana is chemically defended from fish predators across the range of the species and that latitudinal variation occurs in the microbiome of I. campana, driven by a combination of host-specific factors and region-specific environmental filtering of symbiont communities.	2017	565	10.3354/meps12015
Hermans, SM; Buckley, HL; Case, BS; Curran-Cournane, F; Taylor, M; Lear, G	Bacteria as Emerging Indicators of Soil Condition	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Bacterial communities are important for the health and productivity of soil ecosystems and have great potential as novel indicators of environmental per-turbations. To assess how they are affected by anthropogenic activity and to determine their ability to provide alternative metrics of environmental health, we sought to define which soil variables bacteria respond to across multiple soil types and land uses. We determined, through 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing, the composition of bacterial communities in soil samples from 110 natural or human-impacted sites, located up to 300 km apart. Overall, soil bacterial communities varied more in response to changing soil environments than in response to changes in climate or increasing geographic distance. We identified strong correlations between the relative abundances of members of Pirellulaceae and soil pH, members of Gaiellaceae and carbon-to-nitrogen ratios, members of Bradyrhizobium and the levels of Olsen P (a measure of plant available phosphorus), and members of Chitinophagaceae and aluminum concentrations. These relationships between specific soil attributes and individual soil taxa not only highlight ecological characteristics of these organisms but also demonstrate the ability of key bacterial taxonomic groups to reflect the impact of specific anthropogenic activities, even in comparisons of samples across large geographic areas and diverse soil types. Overall, we provide strong evidence that there is scope to use relative taxon abundances as biological indicators of soil condition. IMPORTANCE The impact of land use change and management on soil microbial community composition remains poorly understood. Therefore, we explored the relationship between a wide range of soil factors and soil bacterial community composition. We included variables related to anthropogenic activity and collected samples across a large spatial scale to interrogate the complex relationships between various bacterial community attributes and soil condition. We provide evidence of strong relationships between individual taxa and specific soil attributes even across large spatial scales and soil and land use types. Collectively, we were able to demonstrate the largely untapped potential of microorganisms to indicate the condition of soil and thereby influence the way that we monitor the effects of anthropogenic activity on soil ecosystems into the future.	2017	83	10.1128/AEM.02826-16
Sierra-Garcia, IN; Dellagnezze, BM; Santos, VP; Chaves, MR; Capilla, R; Neto, EVS; Gray, N; Oliveira, VM	Microbial diversity in degraded and non-degraded petroleum samples and comparison across oil reservoirs at local and global scales	EXTREMOPHILES	Microorganisms have shown their ability to colonize extreme environments including deep subsurface petroleum reservoirs. Physicochemical parameters may vary greatly among petroleum reservoirs worldwide and so do the microbial communities inhabiting these different environments. The present work aimed at the characterization of the microbiota in biodegraded and non-degraded petroleum samples from three Brazilian reservoirs and the comparison of microbial community diversity across oil reservoirs at local and global scales using 16S rRNA clone libraries. The analysis of 620 16S rRNA bacterial and archaeal sequences obtained from Brazilian oil samples revealed 42 bacterial OTUs and 21 archaeal OTUs. The bacterial community from the degraded oil was more diverse than the non-degraded samples. Non-degraded oil samples were overwhelmingly dominated by gammaproteobacterial sequences with a predominance of the genera Marinobacter and Marinobacterium. Comparisons of microbial diversity among oil reservoirs worldwide suggested an apparent correlation of prokaryotic communities with reservoir temperature and depth and no influence of geographic distance among reservoirs. The detailed analysis of the phylogenetic diversity across reservoirs allowed us to define a core microbiome encompassing three bacterial classes (Gammaproteobacteria, Clostridia, and Bacteroidia) and one archaeal class (Methanomicrobia) ubiquitous in petroleum reservoirs and presumably owning the abilities to sustain life in these environments.	2017	21	10.1007/s00792-016-0897-8
Price, MR; ORorke, R; Amend, AS; Hadfield, MG	Diet selection at three spatial scales: Implications for conservation of an endangered Hawaiian tree snail	BIOTROPICA	Several recent studies suggest local adaptation in multiple taxa across Hawaiis steep environmental gradients. Restoration efforts in devastated tropical island ecosystems may be deficient if we lack an understanding of the interactions and dependencies in communities that occur along these gradients. Endangered Hawaiian tree snails are part of a snail-epiphyte-plant system where they graze fungi and other microbes on the leaf surface, a process difficult to observe using conventional techniques. Tree snails have undergone catastrophic decline due to introduced predators, removal by shell collectors, and human-influenced habitat degradation. Prior to this study, little was known about the relationship among tree-snails, their host plants, and the epiphytic microbes on which they feed. In this study, we identified scale-dependent selection of substrates in Achatinella sowerbyana and Achatinella lila across the species ranges. We assessed: (1) within-plant diet selection using high-throughput DNA sequencing (micro-scale); (2) among-plant selection of tree host species (small-scale); (3) and the influence of climate on this system (macro-scale). Selection of substrates occurred at two scales: fungal communities in fecal samples differed in composition from those available on leaf surfaces; and at all sites, snail occurrence on Metrosideros polymorpha, a foundational forest plant, was significantly higher than expected based on availability. Habitat restoration efforts should focus on out-planting of M. polymorpha, the preferred snail host tree, in degraded habitat. Fungal differences across sites suggest relocation efforts to predator-free enclosures may be hindered by microbial shifts associated with geographic distance or differing environments.	2017	49	10.1111/btp.12339
Ping, YA; Han, DX; Wang, N; Hu, YB; Mu, LQ; Feng, FJ	Vertical zonation of soil fungal community structure in a Korean pine forest on Changbai Mountain, China	WORLD JOURNAL OF MICROBIOLOGY & BIOTECHNOLOGY	Changbai Mountain, with intact montane vertical vegetation belts, is located at a sensitive area of global climate change and a central distribution area of Korean pine forest. Broad-leaved Korean pine mixed forest (Pinus koraiensis as an edificator) is the most representative zonal climax vegetation in the humid region of northeastern China; their vertical zonation is the most intact and representative on Changbai Mountain. In this study, we analyzed the composition and diversity of soil fungal communities in the Korean pine forest on Changbai Mountain at elevations ranging from 699 to 1177 m using Illumina High-throughput sequencing. We obtained a total 186,663 optimized sequences, with an average length of 268.81 bp. We found soil fungal diversity index was decreased with increasing elevation from 699 to 937 m and began to rise after reaching 1044 m; the richness and evenness indices were decreased with an increase in elevation. Soil fungal compositions at the phylum, class and genus levels varied significantly at different elevations, but with the same dominant fungi. Beta-diversity analysis indicated that the similarity of fungal communities decreased with an increased vertical distance between the sample plots, showing a distance-decay relationship. Variation partition analysis showed that geographic distance (mainly elevation gradient) only explained 20.53 % of the total variation of fungal community structure, while soil physicochemical factors explained 69.78 %.	2017	33	10.1007/s11274-016-2133-1
