AU	TI	SO	AB	PY	VL	DI
Miletto, M; Loy, A; Antheunisse, AM; Loeb, R; Bodelier, PLE; Laanbroek, HJ	Biogeography of sulfate-reducing prokaryotes in river floodplains	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	In this study, a large-scale field survey was conducted to describe the biogeography of sulfate-reducing prokaryotes (SRPs) in river floodplains. Fingerprints obtained with three methods, i.e. 16S rRNA gene-based oligonucleotide microarray, dsrB-based denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) and polar lipid-derived fatty acid (PLFA) analyses, were used as a proxy to describe the SRPs community diversity. Each set of profiles was subjected to a combined multivariate/correlation analysis in order to compare SRP community profiles and to highlight the environmental variables influencing the SRPs distribution along environmental gradients. Floodplain soils harbored distinct SRP communities displaying biogeographic patterns. Nearly all profiles from the tidal sites consistently separated from the nontidal sites, independently from the screening method and the multivariate statistics used. The distribution of the microarray/DGGE/PLFA-based fingerprints in the principal component plots could be correlated to eight soil variables, i.e. soil organic matter, total nitrogen, total phosphorous and total potassium, and extractable ammonium, nitrate, phosphate and sulfate, as well as seven pore water variables, i.e. phosphate, sulfate, sulfide, chloride, sodium, potassium and magnesium ions. Indication of a salinity- and plant nutrient-dependent distribution of SRPs related to Desulfosarcina, Desulfomonile and Desulfobacter was suggested by microarray, DGGE and PLFA analyses.	2008	64	10.1111/j.1574-6941.2008.00490.x
Beardsley, C; Moss, SM; Azam, F	Effect of storage temperature on prokaryotic cell counts and community composition analysis from fixed and filtered seawater samples	HELGOLAND MARINE RESEARCH	Marine, pelagic prokaryotes commonly are visualized and enumerated by epifluorescence microscopy after staining with fluorescent, DNA-binding dyes and sample preparation and storage has a major influence on obtaining reliable estimates. However, sampling often takes place in remote locations and the recommended continuous sample storage at -20 degrees C until further sample evaluation is often logistically challenging or infeasible. We investigated the effect of storage temperature on fixed and filtered seawater samples for subsequent enumeration of total prokaryotic cells and community composition analysis by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH). Prokaryotic abundance in surface seawater was not significantly different after 99 days when filters were stored either at room temperature (RT) or at -20 degrees C. Furthermore, there was no loss in detection rates of phylotypes by FISH from filters stored at RT or -20 degrees C for 28-30 days. We conclude that fixed and filtered seawater samples intended for total prokaryote counts or for FISH may be maintained long-term at room temperature, and this should logistically facilitate diverse studies of prokaryote ecology, biogeography, and the occurrence of human and fish/shellfish pathogens.	2008	62	10.1007/s10152-007-0080-9
Falcon, LI; Noguez, AM; Espinosa-Asuar, L; Eguiarte, LE; Souza, V	Evidence of biogeography in surface ocean bacterioplankton assemblages	MARINE GENOMICS	Regardless of the importance of bacterial assemblages as essential components of ecosystems, little is known about how their populations are structured. We analyzed the composition and turnover rates, based on 16S rDNA sequences, of surface water oceanic bacterial assemblages of the fraction between 0.1 and 0.8 mu m along a latitudinal gradient (45 degrees 642  N in the North Atlantic to 15 degrees 837  S in the South Pacific) including geographic distance, temperature, chlorophyll a and salinity. Here we show that oceanic bacterial assemblages between 0.1 and 0.8 mu m, can be structured by a variety of environmental interactions that include separation by distance and chlorophyll a concentration in temperate North Atlantic coastal samples and temperature in tropical Atlantic and Pacific coastal and open ocean samples. Bacterial phyla composition diverged between temperate and tropical regions. This study suggests that some bacterial assemblages could be structured both by environmental and spatial factors, while others by environmental factors alone. (C) 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2008	1	10.1016/j.margen.2008.06.005
Novozhilov, YK; Schnittler, M	Myxomycete diversity and ecology in arid regions of the Great Lake Basin of western Mongolia	FUNGAL DIVERSITY	A systematic survey for myxomycetes in winter-cold deserts and steppes of western Mongolia resulted in a total of 333 records belonging to 36 species from 13 genera and 7 families. Physarum notabile as the most common species was recorded 72 times, but about one third of all species was classified as rare for the whole study area. Due to the very arid climate of the region, all specimens were obtained by applying the moist chamber culture technique. Maximum values for diversity and species richness were recorded in dry steppe/shrub and mountain steppe/tall shrub communities. whereas extrazonal grasslands and alpine steppes had the most depauperate myxomycete biota. Among three different groups of substrata (bark of shrubs, ground litter, and dung of herbivores) diverging trends in species richness and substrate specificity of the species were found: bark had the richest but least specific, dung the poorest but most specific myxomycete assemblage. A hierarchical cluster analysis carried out on the incidence-based Chao-Soerensen index clearly indicates a separation between myxomycete biotas of Eurasian, western North American and South American deserts, supporting the moderate endemieity model postulated for various other groups of microbes and protists.	2008	30	
Green, JL; Bohannan, BJM; Whitaker, RJ	Microbial biogeography: From taxonomy to traits	SCIENCE	The biogeographic variation of life has predominantly been studied using taxonomy, but this focus is changing. There is a resurging interest in understanding patterns in the distribution not only of taxa but also of the traits those taxa possess. Patterns of trait variation shed light on fundamental questions in biology, including why organisms live where they do and how they will respond to environmental change. Technological advances such as environmental genomics place microbial ecology in a unique position to move trait- based biogeography forward. We anticipate that as trait- based biogeography continues to evolve, micro- and macroorganisms will be studied in concert, establishing a science that is informed by and relevant to all domains of life.	2008	320	10.1126/science.1153475
Petrin, Z; Laudon, H; Malmquist, B	Diverging effects of anthropogenic acidification and natural acidity on community structure in Swedish streams	SCIENCE OF THE TOTAL ENVIRONMENT	Anthropogenic acidification caused by aerial deposition of acidifying substances is known to have detrimental effects on freshwater biota, including reductions in species diversity and ecosystem functioning. However, such impairment is not found in systems acidified to a similar extent by natural processes. A proposed explanation for this difference is that freshwater organisms have had far more time to evolve and adapt to natural than anthropogenic acidification. Thus, where acidity is natural, adaptation may account for diverse and functional communities. Here, we investigated whether adaptations-that were previously implied to occur on small spatial scales-may explain the species richness patterns on a much larger geographical scale, apply to ecological functioning, and are relevant in Sweden, where natural acidity is geologically relatively recent. Therefore, we compared differences in species diversity and ecosystem process rates between 24 acidic and circumneutral streams in northern Sweden, where acidity is natural, and southern Sweden, where acidity is largely anthropogenic. In agreement with our predictions, the difference in macroinvertebrate species richness between acidic and circumneutral streams was threefold larger in the region where acidity was anthropogenic than where it was natural, albeit marginally non-significantly. In contrast, no such trend was found for the rates of decomposition by microbes and leaf-feeding macroinvertebrates, possibly due to functional redundancy. The structure of species assemblages differed between acidic and circumneutral sites and between the regions. Our results agree with the notion that freshwater biota are adapted to natural acidity, but competing explanations including other differences in water chemistry and differences in the biogeographical colonization histories may also account for part of the observed patterns. Since naturally acidic environments similar to those in northern Sweden are widespread, we predict that diverse and functionally efficient freshwater communities that are well adapted to such conditions are more common than currently recognized. (c) 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2008	394	10.1016/j.scitotenv.2008.01.055
Toplin, JA; Norris, TB; Lehr, CR; McDermott, TR; Castenholz, RW	Biogeographic and phylogenetic diversity of thermoacidophilic Cyanidiales in Yellowstone National Park, Japan, and New Zealand	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Members of the rhodophytan order Cyanidiales are unique among phototrophs in their ability to live in extreme environments that combine low pH levels (similar to 0.2 to 4.0) and moderately high temperatures of 40 to 56 degrees C. These unicellular algae occur in far-flung volcanic areas throughout the earth. Three genera (Cyanidium, Galdieria, and Cyanidioschyzon) are recognized. The phylogenetic diversity of culture isolates of the Cyanidiales from habitats throughout Yellowstone National Park (YNP), three areas in Japan, and seven regions in New Zealand was examined by using the chloroplast RuBisCO large subunit gene (rbcL) and the 18S rRNA gene. Based on the nucleotide sequences of both genes, the YNP isolates fall into two groups, one with high identity to Galdieria sulphuraria (type II) and another that is by far the most common and extensively distributed Yellowstone type (type IA). The latter is a spherical, walled cell that reproduces by internal divisions, with a subsequent release of smaller daughter cells. This type, nevertheless, shows a 99 to 100% identity to Cyanidioschyzon merolae (type IB), which lacks a wall, divides by fission-like cytokinesis into two daughter cells, and has less than 5% of the cell volume of type IA. The evolutionary and taxonomic ramifications of this disparity are discussed. Although the 18S rRNA and rbcL genes did not reveal diversity among the numerous isolates of type IA, chloroplast short sequence repeats did show some variation by location within YNP. In contrast, Japanese and New Zealand strains showed considerable diversity when we examined only the sequences of 18S and rbcL genes. Most exhibited identities closer to Galdieria maxima than to other strains, but these identities were commonly as low as 91 to 93%. Some of these Japanese and New Zealand strains probably represent undescribed species that diverged after long-term geographic isolation.	2008	74	10.1128/AEM.02741-07
Findlay, RH; Yeates, C; Hullar, MAJ; Stahl, DA; Kaplan, LA	Biorne-level biogeography of streambed microbiota	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	A field study was conducted to determine the microbial community structures of streambed sediments across diverse geographic and climatic areas. Sediment samples were collected from three adjacent headwater forest streams within three biomes, eastern deciduous (Pennsylvania), southeastern coniferous (New Jersey), and tropical evergreen (Guanacaste, Costa Rica), to assess whether there is biome control of stream microbial community structure. Bacterial abundance, microbial biomass, and bacterial and microbial community structures were determined using classical, biochemical, and molecular methods. Microbial biomass, determined using phospholipid phosphate, was significantly greater in the southeastern coniferous biome, likely due to the smaller grain size, higher organic content, and lower levels of physical disturbance of these sediments. Microbial community structure was determined using phospholipid fatty acid (PLFA) profiles and bacterial community structure from terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism and edited (microeukaryotic PLFAs removed) PLFA profiles. Principal component analysis (PCA) was used to investigate patterns in total microbial community structure. The first principal component separated streams based on the importance of phototrophic microeukaryotes within the community, while the second separated southeastern coniferous streams from all others based on increased abundance of fungal PLFAs. PCA also indicated that within- and among-stream variations were small for tropical evergreen streams and large for southeastern coniferous streams. A similar analysis of bacterial community structure indicated that streams within biomes had similar community structures, while each biome possessed a unique streambed community, indicating strong within-biome control of stream bacterial community structure.	2008	74	10.1128/AEM.01809-07
Tourna, M; Freitag, TE; Nicol, GW; Prosser, JI	Growth, activity and temperature responses of ammonia-oxidizing archaea and bacteria in soil microcosms	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Ammonia oxidation, as the first step in the nitrification process, plays a central role in the global cycling of nitrogen. Although bacteria are traditionally considered to be responsible for ammonia oxidation, a role for archaea has been suggested by data from metagenomic studies and by the isolation of a marine, autotrophic, ammonia-oxidizing, non-thermophilic crenarchaeon. Evidence for ammonia oxidation by non-thermophilic crenarchaea in marine and terrestrial environments is largely based on abundance of bacterial and archaeal ammonia monooxygenase (amo) genes, rather than activity. In this study, we have determined the influence of temperature on the response of ammonia-oxidizing bacteria and archaea in nitrifying soil microcosms using two approaches, involving analysis of transcriptional activity of 16S rRNA genes and of a key functional gene, amoA, which encodes ammonia monooxygenase subunit A. There was little evidence of changes in relative abundance or transcriptional activity of ammonia-oxidizing bacteria during nitrification. In contrast, denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis analysis of crenarchaeal 16S rRNA and crenarchaeal amoA genes provided strong evidence of changes in community structure of active archaeal ammonia oxidizers. Community structure changes were similar during incubation at different temperatures and much of the activity was due to a group of non-thermophilic crenarchaea associated with subsurface and marine environments, rather than soil. The findings suggest a role for crenarchaea in soil nitrification and that further information is required on their biogeography.	2008	10	10.1111/j.1462-2920.2007.01563.x
Inglis, GD; Duke, GM; Goettel, MS; Kabaluk, JT	Genetic diversity of Metarhizium anisopliae var. anisopliae in southwestern British Columbia	JOURNAL OF INVERTEBRATE PATHOLOGY	The abundance and genetic diversity of the entomopathogenic fungus, Metarhizium anisopliae var. anisopliae, in southwestern British Columbia (BC) and southern Alberta was examined. The fungus was found to be widespread in soil throughout southwestern BC, and was recovered from 56% of 85 sample sites. In contrast to southwestern BC, no M. anisopliae isolates were recovered in southern Alberta. An automated fluorescent amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) method was used to examine genetic diversity. In excess of 200 isolates were characterized. The method identified 211 polymorphic amplicons, ranging in size from approximate to 92 to 400 base pairs, and it was found to be reproducible with a resolution limit of 86.2% similarity. The AFLP method distinguished Metarhizium from other entomopathogenic fungal genera, and demonstrated considerable genetic diversity (25 genotypes) among the reference strains of M. anisopliae isolates examined (i.e. recovered from various substrates and geographical locations). Although 13 genotypes of M. anisopliae var. anisopliae were recovered from southwestern BC soils, the vast majority of isolates (91%) belonged to one of two closely-related genotypes. Furthermore, these two genotypes predominated in urban, agricultural and forest soils. The reasons for the limited diversity of M. anisopliae var. anisopliae in southwestern BC are uncertain. However, findings of this study are consistent with island biogeography theory, and have significant implications for the development of this fungus for microbial control of pest insects. Crown copyright (C) 2007 Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.	2008	98	10.1016/j.jip.2007.12.001
Hamilton, AK; Lovejoy, C; Galand, PE; Ingram, RG	Water masses and biogeography of picoeukaryote assemblages in a cold hydrographically complex system	LIMNOLOGY AND OCEANOGRAPHY	We investigated the influence of geographic distance, environmental variables, and water mass origin on picoeukaryote ( phytoplankton and other protists < 3 mu m) assemblages to assess the presence of biogeographic patterns. The study region was an area of converging Arctic and Atlantic currents where several distinct water masses were overlain and intersecting. Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis ( DGGE) profiles of assemblages revealed 42 distinct band types overall, with minimum richness ( 8 band types) in Arctic surface water and Atlantic deep water, and maximum richness ( 22 band types) in regions of water mass mixing. Sequencing of DGGE bands revealed that most sequences ( 78 of 98) matched uncultured clones from major taxonomic marine groups, including the Acantharea, Bacillariophyceae, Cercozoa, Chrysophyceae, Dinophyceae, Prasinophyceae, Prymnesiophyceae, and stramenopiles, as well as the novel marine stramenopiles ( MAST), alveolate groups I and II, and picobiliphytes. Multivariate statistical analysis of DGGE profiles revealed that picoeukaryote assemblage composition was positively correlated with geographic proximity, abiotic environmental conditions ( salinity, photosynthetically active radiation, and transmissivity), and biotic community structure ( total phototrophic biomass and size class). Picoeukaryote assemblage similarity was also strongly associated with water mass origin; assemblages in close spatial proximity ( horizontally or vertically) showed less similarity if located in different water masses, while spatially distant assemblages showed higher similarity if located within the same water mass. This study highlights that ocean hydrodynamics must be considered to fully explain the distribution and diversity of microbes in this fluid realm.	2008	53	10.4319/lo.2008.53.3.0922
Miloslavich, P	The Census of Marine Life in the Caribbean: A Biodiversity Program	REVISTA DE BIOLOGIA TROPICAL	The Census of Marine Life (CoML) is an international science program to assess and explain the diversity, distribution and abundance of marine life, past, present and future. The program has three major components which are historical, exploratory and modeling, all of which are integrated into an open source database (OBIS: Ocean Biogeographic Information System) for visualization and analysis. In the Caribbean, the program began in 2004 by reviewing the state of knowledge of marine biodiversity in 10 countries of the region, as well as the establishment of a link between the CoML and research programs and conservation initiatives. An historical project coordinated in the Caribbean deals with integrating, standardizing and synthesizing the data on the early human impact on mollusc populations in a global perspective. This project is generating a Human/Molluscs Interaction Database (HMID) containing high quality historical data, descriptions and interpretations of worldwide events, patterns, processes, and products resulting from the interactions between humans and molluscs through time. Engaged exploratory projects in the Caribbean deal with the biodiversity of the nearshore in seagrass beds and rocky shores (NaGISA), and the deep sea (COMARGE). The Coral Reef (Caricoral) and microbes (ICOMM) projects are currently under organization in the region and have already established clear goals and an action plan for their implementation within a network. The participation of the Caribbean in the Ocean Tracking Network (OTN) has also been engaged. The Caribbean has contributed with the OBIS database through the SIBM (Sistema de Informacion Biogeografica Marina) of the INVEMAR in Colombia. However, there is an urgent need of identifying literature and collections that can be digitalized, georeferenced and incorporated into OBIS. The CoML-Caribbean is open to new partnerships and collaborations both within and outside the region. Within the region, it seeks to (1) integrate researchers in marine biodiversity, (2) consolidate available information on marine biodiversity, (3) learn and exchange ideas about national and regional plans, priorities and conservation policies and (4) maintain a regional committee to support CoML projects. At a global scale, it also seeks to explore opportunities for regional and international cooperation in new developing projects related to marine biodiversity. Rev. Biol. Trop. 56 (Suppl. 1): 171-181. Epub 2008 May 30.	2008	56	
Gu, XM; He, SY; Lei, A	Molecular phylogenetics among three families of bats (Chiroptera : Rhinolophidae, Hipposideridae, and Vespertilionidae) based on partial sequences of the mitochondrial 12S and 16S rRNA genes	ZOOLOGICAL STUDIES	Extensive morphologic and molecular analyses of the phylogenetics of bats have been carried out, but controversies still exist. In order to further deduce the phylogenetic relationships among the families Vespertilionidae, Hipposideridae, and Rhinolophidae of microbats (Chiroptera), partial mitochondrial 12S and 16S rRNA gene sequences (2400 bp) for 32 species of the 3 families were obtained, among which the sequences of 19 species were amplified in this study and the other 13 were retrieved from GenBank. Meanwhile, those of 3 species in the family Pteropodidae and 1 species in the family Molossidae were also obtained from GenBank. The phylogenetics of all 5 families were assessed using a maximum-parsimony (MP) analysis. Second, the intrafamily relationships of the Vespertilionidae as well as the intra- and interfamily relationships of the Rhinolophidae and Hipposideridae were addressed using Bayesian, minimum-evolution (ME), and Neighbor-joining (NJ) methods. The following results were clearly demonstrated. (1) The paraphyly of microbats was revealed. (2) The subfamily Miniopterinae could not be elevated to family status, and it was the 1st clade separated from the Vespertilionidae. (3) Myotis should be elevated to the subfamily Myotinae, which was sister to a clade containing the Kerivoulinae and Murininae. (4) In the genus Myotis, all assayed New World and Old World species were respectively placed together in clades, and the 3 subgenera were not closely phylogenetically related. (5) As for Pipistrellus-like bats, 3 genera (Ia, Scotomanes, and Eptesicus) were successively placed together in clades, and were sister to the clade containing Pipistrellus, indicating a higher probability that the genus la belongs to Eptesicini than to Pipistrellus. (6) The Rhinolophoidae and Hipposideridae should be treated as separate families. (7) In the genus Hipposideros, Hipposideros armiger was first placed together with H. larvatus in a clade, then with H. pratti, and H. bicolor was the 1st branch separated from other species of Hipposideros. (8) Finally, R. ferrumequinum and Rhinolophus sp. were the 1st branch separated from other Rhinolophids.	2008	47	
Marchant, R; Franzetti, A; Pavlostathis, SG; Tas, DO; Erdbrugger, I; Unyayar, A; Mazmanci, MA; Banat, IM	Thermophilic bacteria in cool temperate soils: are they metabolically active or continually added by global atmospheric transport?	APPLIED MICROBIOLOGY AND BIOTECHNOLOGY	Thermophilic soil geobacilli isolated from cool temperate geographical zone environments have been shown to be metabolically inactive under aerobic conditions at ambient temperatures (-5 to 25 degrees C). It is now confirmed that a similar situation exists for their anaerobic denitrification activity. It is necessary therefore to determine the mechanisms that sustain the observed significant viable populations in these soils. Population analysis of thermophiles in rainwater and air samples has shown different species compositions which support the view that long distance global transport and deposition in rainwater is a possible source of replenishment of the soil thermophile populations. Survival experiments using a representative Geobacillus isolate have indicated that while cells lose viability rapidly at most temperatures, populations can increase only when the temperature allows growth to take place at a rate which exceeds death rate. Long term (9-month) experiments at 4 degrees C show population increases which can be accounted for by very slow growth rates complemented by negligible death rates. These results are interpreted in the context of current hypotheses on the biogeography patterns of bacteria.	2008	78	10.1007/s00253-008-1372-y
Zuccarello, GC; West, JA; Kikuchi, N	Phylogenetic relationships within the stylonematales (Stylonematophyceae, Rhodophyta): Biogeographic patterns do not apply to Stylonema alsidii	JOURNAL OF PHYCOLOGY	The Stylonematales is the sole order of the Stylonematophyceae. The order consists of a mixture of filamentous or unicellular taxa that are small, grow on various surfaces, and are described from many floras, indicating that they may be cosmopolitan. Such ubiquity has been proposed to be due to properties of microorganisms, such as large population sizes, rather than human-derived phenomena. While their small nature makes most records fortuitous, we targeted these red algae to get a better understanding of their global distribution, genetic variation, and phylogeographic relationships. Our results indicated that the genera are mostly well supported, except for the position of Stylonema cornu-cervi with Goniotrichopsis reniformis, while intergeneric relationships are mostly unsupported. The most commonly isolated species was Stylonema alsidii. Within this species, several well-supported clades were present. The phylogeographic relationships in S. alsidii showed no obvious biogeographic pattern, with supported clades containing samples from disparate locations, and multiple samples from the same area not grouping together. Some clades showed little genetic variation and wide distributions, possibly indicating human-derived dispersal. Other clades, also with wide distribution, showed more genetic structure and could be candidates for groups formed by natural long-distance dispersal. While all issues on ubiquity cannot be answered with this data set, it would appear that at least S. alsidii is a true ubiquitous taxon. The sister relationship of Rufusia pilicola to the remaining Stylonematophyceae, the presence of the carbohydrate floridoside, and this species unusual habitat indicate that it belongs to a new order, Rufusiales.	2008	44	10.1111/j.1529-8817.2008.00467.x
Portillo, MC; Gonzalez, JM	Microbial communities and immigration in volcanic environments of Canary Islands (Spain)	NATURWISSENSCHAFTEN	Volcanic eruptions originated the Canary Islands (Spain), and today, different landscapes clearly show that active volcanism. The microbial communities present in these volcanic environments, both at high (above 70 degrees C) and moderate (25-35 degrees C) temperatures, were analyzed. Rock samples were processed using molecular techniques based on both DNA and RNA and complemented with the culture of microorganisms at a wide range of temperatures. Microorganisms detected through RNA-based molecular surveys were mostly related to mesophilic microorganisms, while representatives of hyperthermophiles were not detected. RNA decay curves at 80 degrees C resulted in half-life estimates of less than 2 min for mesophilic microorganisms, supporting a recent and continuous arrival of microorganisms to the high temperature sampled sites. This study constitutes a unique experimental approach showing a great natural potential of microorganisms to spread out to different natural environments. The implications are of great interest for the biogeography, dispersal, and potential distribution of microorganisms, and their genetic information, in natural environments.	2008	95	10.1007/s00114-007-0330-3
Epis, S; Sassera, D; Beninati, T; Lo, N; Beati, L; Piesman, J; Rinaldi, L; Mccoy, KD; Torina, A; Sacchi, L; Clementi, E; Genchi, M; Magnino, S; Bandi, C	Midichloria mitochondrii is widespread in hard ticks (Ixodidae) and resides in the mitochondria of phylogenetically diverse species	PARASITOLOGY	The hard tick Ixodes ricinus (Ixodidae) is the sole animal thus far shown to harbour an intra-mitochondrial bacterium, which has recently been named Midichloria mitochondrii. The objectives of this work were (i) to screen ixodid ticks for Midichloria-related bacteria and (ii) to determine whether these bacteria exploit the intra-mitochondrial niche in other tick species. Our main goal was to discover further models of this peculiar form of symbiosis. We have thus performed a PCR screening for Midichloria -related bacteria in samples of ixodid ticks collected in Italy, North America and Iceland. A total of 7 newly examined species from 5 genera were found positive for bacteria closely related to M. mitochondrii. Samples of the tick species Rhipicephalus bursa, found positive in the PCR screening, were analysed with transmission electron microscopy, which revealed the presence of bacteria both in the cytoplasm and in the mitochondria of the oocytes. There is thus evidence that bacteria invade mitochondria in at least 2 tick species. Phylogenetic analysis on the bacterial 16S rRNA gene sequences generated from positive specimens revealed that the bacteria form a monophyletic group within the order Rickettsiales. The phylogeny of Midichloria symbionts and related bacteria does not appear completely congruent with the phylogeny of the hosts.	2008	135	10.1017/S0031182007004052
Beck, RMD; Godthelp, H; Weisbecker, V; Archer, M; Hand, SJ	Australias Oldest Marsupial Fossils and their Biogeographical Implications	PLOS ONE	Background: We describe new cranial and post-cranial marsupial fossils from the early Eocene Tingamarra Local Fauna in Australia and refer them to Djarthia murgonensis, which was previously known only from fragmentary dental remains. Methodology/Principal Findings: The new material indicates that Djarthia is a member of Australidelphia, a pan-Gondwanan clade comprising all extant Australian marsupials together with the South American microbiotheres. Djarthia is therefore the oldest known crown-group marsupial anywhere in the world that is represented by dental, cranial and post-cranial remains, and the oldest known Australian marsupial by 30 million years. It is also the most plesiomorphic known australidelphian, and phylogenetic analyses place it outside all other Australian marsupials. Conclusions/Significance: As the most plesiomorphic and oldest unequivocal australidelphian, Djarthia may approximate the ancestral morphotype of the Australian marsupial radiation and suggests that the South American microbiotheres may be the result of back-dispersal from eastern Gondwana, which is the reverse of prevailing hypotheses.	2008	3	10.1371/journal.pone.0001858
Desnues, C; Rodriguez-Brito, B; Rayhawk, S; Kelley, S; Tran, T; Haynes, M; Liu, H; Furlan, M; Wegley, L; Chau, B; Ruan, YJ; Hall, D; Angly, FE; Edwards, RA; Li, LL; Thurber, RV; Reid, RP; Siefert, J; Souza, V; Valentine, DL; Swan, BK; Breitbart, M; Rohwer, F	Biodiversity and biogeography of phages in modern stromatolites and thrombolites	NATURE	Viruses, and more particularly phages ( viruses that infect bacteria), represent one of the most abundant living entities in aquatic and terrestrial environments. The biogeography of phages has only recently been investigated and so far reveals a cosmopolitan distribution of phage genetic material ( or genotypes)(1-4). Here we address this cosmopolitan distribution through the analysis of phage communities in modern microbialites, the living representatives of one of the most ancient life forms on Earth. On the basis of a comparative metagenomic analysis of viral communities associated with marine ( Highborne Cay, Bahamas) and freshwater ( Pozas Azules II and Rio Mesquites, Mexico) microbialites, we show that some phage genotypes are geographically restricted. The high percentage of unknown sequences recovered from the three metagenomes (>97%), the low percentage similarities with sequences from other environmental viral ( n = 42) and microbial ( n = 36) metagenomes, and the absence of viral genotypes shared among microbialites indicate that viruses are genetically unique in these environments. Identifiable sequences in the Highborne Cay metagenome were dominated by single- stranded DNA microphages that were not detected in any other samples examined, including sea water, fresh water, sediment, terrestrial, extreme, metazoan- associated and marine microbial mats. Finally, a marine signature was present in the phage community of the Pozas Azules II microbialites, even though this environment has not been in contact with the ocean for tens of millions of years. Taken together, these results prove that viruses in modern microbialites display biogeographical variability and suggest that they may be derived from an ancient community.	2008	452	10.1038/nature06735
Vos, M; Velicer, GJ	Isolation by distance in the spore-forming soil bacterium Myxococcus xanthus	CURRENT BIOLOGY	Genetic differentiation between spatially separated populations within a species is commonly observed in plants and animals, but its existence in microbes has long been a contentious issue[1-5]. Traditionally, many microbial ecologists have reasoned that microbes are not limited by dispersal as a result of their immense numbers and microscopic size [2, 6]. In this view, the absence of barriers to gene flow between populations would prevent differentiation of populations by genetic drift and hinder local adaptation. Myxococcus xanthus is a globally distributed, spore-forming bacterium that offers a robust test for genetic differentiation among populations because sporulation is expected to enhance dispersal. Using multi-locus sequence data, we show here that both diversity and the degree of differentiation between populations increase as a function of distance in M. xanthus. Populations are consistently differentiated at scales exceeding 10(2)-10(3) km, and isolation by distance, the divergence of populations by genetic drift due to limited dispersal, is responsible. Our results provide new insights into how genetic diversity within species of free-living microbes is distributed from centimeter to global scales.	2008	18	10.1016/j.cub.2008.02.050
Geng, HF; Bruhn, JB; Nielsen, KF; Gram, L; Belas, R	Genetic dissection of tropodithietic acid biosynthesis by marine roseobacters	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	The symbiotic association between the roseobacter Silicibacter sp. strain TM1040 and the dinoflagellate Pfiesteria piscicida involves bacterial chemotaxis to dinoflagellate-produced dimethylsulfoniopropionate (DMSP), DMSP demethylation, and ultimately a biofilm on the surface of the host. Biofilm formation is coincident with the production of an antibiotic and a yellow-brown pigment. In this report, we demonstrate that the antibiotic is a sulfur-containing compound, tropodithietic acid (TDA). Using random transposon insertion mutagenesis, 12 genes were identified as critical for TDA biosynthesis by the bacteria, and mutation in any one of these results in a loss of antibiotic activity (Tda(-)) and pigment production. Unexpectedly, six of the genes, referred to as tdaA-F, could not be found on the annotated TM1040 genome and were instead located on a previously unidentified plasmid (ca. 130 kb; pSTM3) that exhibited a low frequency of spontaneous loss. Homologs of tdaA and tdaB from Silicibacter sp. strain TM1040 were identified by mutagenesis in another TDA-producing roseobacter, Phaeobacter sp. strain 27-4, which also possesses two large plasmids (ca. 60 and ca. 70 kb, respectively), and tda genes were found by DNA-DNA hybridization in 88% of a diverse collection of nine roseobacters with known antibiotic activity. These data suggest that roseobacters may use a common pathway for TDA biosynthesis that involves plasmid-encoded proteins. Using metagenomic library databases and a bioinformatics approach, differences in the biogeographical distribution between the critical TDA synthesis genes were observed. The implications of these results to roseobacter survival and the interaction between TM1040 and its dinoflagellate host are discussed.	2008	74	10.1128/AEM.02339-07
Rossello-Mora, R; Lucio, M; Pena, A; Brito-Echeverria, J; Lopez-Lopez, A; Valens-Vadell, M; Frommberger, M; Anton, J; Schmitt-Kopplin, P	Metabolic evidence for biogeographic isolation of the extremophilic bacterium Salinibacter ruber	ISME JOURNAL	The biogeography of prokaryotes and the effect of geographical barriers as evolutionary constraints are currently subjected to great debate. Some clear- cut evidence for geographic isolation has been obtained by genetic methods but, in many cases, the markers used are too coarse to reveal subtle biogeographical trends. Contrary to eukaryotic microorganisms, phenotypic evidence for allopatric segregation in prokaryotes has never been found. Here we present, for the first time, a metabolomic approach based on ultrahigh resolution mass spectrometry to reveal phenotypic biogeographical discrimination. We demonstrate that strains of the cosmopolitan extremophilic bacterium Salinibacter ruber, isolated from different sites in the world, can be distinguished by means of characteristic metabolites, and that these differences can be correlated to their geographical isolation site distances. The approach allows distinct degrees of discrimination for isolates at different geographical scales. In all cases, the discriminative metabolite patterns were quantitative rather than qualitative, which may be an indication of geographically distinct transcriptional or posttranscriptional regulations.	2008	2	10.1038/ismej.2007.93
Ge, Y; He, JZ; Zhu, YG; Zhang, JB; Xu, ZH; Zhang, LM; Zheng, YM	Differences in soil bacterial diversity: driven by contemporary disturbances or historical contingencies?	ISME JOURNAL	Contemporary environmental disturbances and historical contingencies are considered to be major factors driving current differences in microbial diversity. However, little was known about their relative importance. This study combines culture- independent molecular techniques and advanced statistical analyses to examine quantitatively the relative importance of contemporary disturbances and historical contingencies in influencing large- scale soil bacterial diversity using a large set of manipulated field- based molecular data ( 212 samples). Contemporary disturbances were represented by applications of different fertilizers N, P, K and organic manure ( OM) and historical contingencies by distinct geographic sampling locations and soil profiles. Multivariate regression tree ( MRT) analysis showed that diversity estimates were mainly distinguished by sampling locations, which explained 40.8% of the variation in bacterial diversity, followed by soil profiles ( 19.5%), sampling time ( 13.1%), OM ( 3.7%) and P ( 1.8%). Aggregated boosted tree ( ABT) analysis showed that the relative importance of different categorical factors on soil bacterial diversity variation was ranked as sampling locations, soil profiles, sampling time, OM and P. Both MRT and ABT analyses showed that historical contingencies were the dominant factor driving variation in bacterial diversity across a regional scale ( about 1000 km), whereas some contemporary disturbances also caused variation in bacterial diversity at a local scale. This study demonstrated that past events and contemporary disturbances had similar influence on soil bacterial diversity to that documented for macroorganisms, indicating that there might be some common aspects of biogeography to all organisms.	2008	2	10.1038/ismej.2008.2
Bredholt, H; Fjaervik, E; Johnsen, G; Zotchev, SB	Actinomycetes from Sediments in the trondheim fjord, Norway: Diversity and biological activity	MARINE DRUGS	The marine environment represents a largely untapped source for isolation of new microorganisms with potential to produce biologically active secondary metabolites. Among such microorganisms, Gram-positive actinomycete bacteria are of special interest, since they are known to produce chemically diverse compounds with a wide range of biological activities. We have set out to isolate and characterize actinomycete bacteria from the sediments in one of the largest Norwegian fjords, the Trondheim fjord, with respect to diversity and antibiotic-producing potential. Approximately 3,200 actinomycete bacteria were isolated using four different agar media from the sediment samples collected at different locations and depths (4.5 to 450 m). Grouping of the isolates first according to the morphology followed by characterization of isolates chosen as group representatives by molecular taxonomy revealed that Micromonospora was the dominating actinomycete genus isolated from the sediments. The deep water sediments contained a higher relative amount of Micromonospora compared to the shallow water samples. Nine percent of the isolates clearly required sea water for normal growth, suggesting that these strains represent obligate marine organisms. Extensive screening of the extracts from all collected isolates for antibacterial and antifungal activities revealed strong antibiotic-producing potential among them. The latter implies that actinomycetes from marine sediments in Norwegian fjords can be potential sources for the discovery of novel anti-infective agents.	2008	6	10.3390/md6010012
Avila, C; Taboada, S; Nunez-Pons, L	Antarctic marine chemical ecology: what is next?	MARINE ECOLOGY-AN EVOLUTIONARY PERSPECTIVE	Antarctic ecosystems are exposed to unique environmental characteristics resulting in communities structured both by biotic interactions such as predation and competition, as well as abiotic factors such as seasonality and ice-scouring. It is important to understand how ecological factors may trigger chemical mechanisms in marine Antarctic organisms as a response for survival. However, very little is known yet about the evolution of chemical compounds in Antarctic organisms. Investigations in chemical ecology have demonstrated over the last several years that defensive metabolites have evolved in numerous representative Antarctic species. This contradicts earlier theories concerning biogeographic variation in predation and chemical defenses. As reviewed here, a number of interesting natural products have been isolated from Antarctic organisms. However, we believe many more are still to be discovered. Currently, many groups such as microorganisms, planktonic organisms and deep-sea fauna remain almost totally unknown regarding their natural products. Furthermore, for many described compounds, ecological roles have yet to be evaluated. In fact, much of the research carried out to date has been conducted in the laboratory, and only in a few cases in an ecologically relevant context. Therefore, there is a need to extend the experiments to the field, as done in tropical and temperate marine ecosystems, or at least, to test the activity of the chemicals in natural conditions and ecologically meaningful interactions. Defense against predators is always one of the main topics when talking about the roles of natural products in species interactions, but many other interesting aspects, such as competition, chemoattraction, fouling avoidance and ultraviolet (UV) protection, also deserve further attention. In our opinion, challenging future developments are to be expected for Antarctic marine chemical ecology in the years to come.	2008	29	10.1111/j.1439-0485.2007.00215.x
Schauer, S; Kutschera, U	Methylotrophic bacteria on the surfaces of field-grown sunflower plants: a biogeographic perspective	THEORY IN BIOSCIENCES	Plant-associated methylobacteria of the genus Methylobacterium colonize the foliage and roots of embryophytes, living on the volatile compound methanol emitted from the cells of their host organism. In this study we analyzed these surface-dwelling pink-pigmented epiphytes in three contrasting habitats of field-grown sunflower plants (Helianthus annuus). Using the methanol-ammonium salts agar surface impression method and a polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based assay, we document the occurrence and characterize the composition of the methylobacteria in these epiphytic habitats. In both the sun-exposed phylloplane (yellow ligulate florets; green leaves) and the moist, dark rhizoplane pink-pigmented methylobacteria were detected that are assigned to the taxa M. mesophilicum, M. extorquens, M. radiotolerans and M. sp. (un-identifiable by our methods). Considerable differences in relative species compositions were found. These data are discussed with respect to a biogeographic model of the plant surface and microbial population dynamics on leaves. In addition, methylobacteria were analyzed by microscopic techniques. We document that in sedentary colonies extracellular polymers are secreted. However, flagella, which were observed in single cells maintained in liquid cultures, are absent in these bacterial aggregates.	2008	127	10.1007/s12064-007-0020-x
Dawson, MN; Hamner, WM	A biophysical perspective on dispersal and the geography of evolution in marine and terrestrial systems	JOURNAL OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY INTERFACE	The fluid mechanics of marine and terrestrial systems are surprisingly similar at many spatial and temporal scales. Not surprisingly, the dispersal of organisms that. oat, swim or fly is influenced by the fluid environments of air and seawater. Nonetheless, it has been argued repeatedly that the geography of evolution differs fundamentally between marine and terrestrial taxa. Might this view emanate from qualitative contrasts between the pelagic ocean and terrestrial land conflated by anthropocentric perception of within- and between-realm variation? We draw on recent advances in biogeography to identify two pairs of biophysically similar marine and terrestrial settings (i) aerial and marine microplankton and (ii) true islands and brackish seawater lakes which have similar geographies of evolution. Commonalities at these scales, the largest and smallest biogeographic scales, delimit the geographical extents that can possibly characterize evolution in the remaining majority of species. The geographies of evolution therefore differ statistically, not fundamentally, between marine and terrestrial systems. Comparing the geography of evolution in diverse non-microplanktonic and non-island species from a biophysical perspective is an essential next step for quantifying precisely how marine and terrestrial systems differ and is an important yet under-explored avenue of macroecology.	2008	5	10.1098/rsif.2007.1089
Foissner, W	Protist diversity and distribution: some basic considerations	BIODIVERSITY AND CONSERVATION	This essay discusses protist species number and geographic distribution, both heavily influenced by undersampling and human introductions. The features of the ubiquity model and the moderate endemicity model are compared. I recognize five main flaws of the ubiquity model, viz., the ignorance of the extraordinary possibilities protists have to speciate due to their short generation time and the likelihood that many persisted over geological time scales; that all protist species have high abundances; that their small size is a main reason for global distribution; the ignorance of human introductions; and the rejection of literature evidence on the occurrence of flagship species with restricted distribution in a wide variety of protists. Thus, the data available support the moderate endemicity model which proposes about 300,000 extant, free-living protist species, of which one third might have a restricted distribution, i.e., is not cosmopolitan in spite of suitable habitats. To sum up, the distribution of protists, flowering plants, and larger animals has much in common, but protists usually have wider ranges and thus a higher proportion of cosmopolites. Future research should reconcile morphologic, genetic, and ecological species concepts because this is crucial for determining the number of protist species. Further, greatly intensified research is required on morphospecies in heterotrophic protists because their diversity has never been investigated in large areas of the earth.	2008	17	10.1007/s10531-007-9248-5
Smith, HG; Bobrov, A; Lara, E	Diversity and biogeography of testate amoebae	BIODIVERSITY AND CONSERVATION	Testate amoebae are amoeboid protists inhabiting a test (shell). They occur globally in soils, wetlands and freshwater, especially peats and mosses. They are of ancient origin, dating from at least the Mesozoic, with possible ancestors as old as the Neoproterozoic. Approximately 2,000 taxa have been described-a number which could easily rise to 4,000 with comprehensive recording. Whilst many protists appear to be cosmopolitan as morphospecies, some of the larger testate species (exceeding 100 mu m) have long been considered, controversially, to be geographically restricted. Definitive conclusions have often been confounded by gaps in distributional data and misidentification. Recent increases in recording from previously little known regions, and the rise of molecular taxonomy, have started to resolve outstanding issues-processes still far from complete. Accordingly, biogeographical studies have concentrated on flagship species-those which can be identified with certainty and are sufficiently recorded to determine their ecological ranges. Apodera vas (Certes) has been proved to be largely restricted to the Gondwanaland continents and sub-Antarctic islands, but absent from the Holartic despite the availability of much suitable habitat. An early analysis postulated a Mesozoic origin of the species and a distribution influenced by continental drift. Recent molecular evidence could imply a later origin. Either way, its current distribution is clearly influenced by the pattern of global wind currents and lack of lowland tropical habitat. By contrast a Gondwana-tropical group of species appears to be restricted to latitudes unaffected by glaciation. Instances of local endemism, such as restriction to a single island, are also known, which await molecular evidence for substantiation.	2008	17	10.1007/s10531-007-9260-9
Simon, EM; Nanney, DL; Doerder, FP	The Tetrahymena pyriformis complex of cryptic species	BIODIVERSITY AND CONSERVATION	Cryptic species are common among protists and have long been known in ciliates. The ciliate genus Tetrahymena contains a large group of morphologically indistinguishable species referred to as the T. pyriformis complex. These species include those reproductively isolated by mating type as well as asexual species characterized by the absence of the germinal micronucleus. This paper examines the molecular diversity of the species and describes the biogeography of T. pyriformis species. Most species are globally distributed, though the best studied species, T. thermophila, is confined to North America and gives evidence of population structure in local populations. Selfers and asexual species are common and arise from sexual species, a possible exploitation of nuclear dimorphism. It is argued that the cryptic species likely have different ecological roles and that the biodiversity of Tetrahymena in particular, and ciliates in general, is underestimated.	2008	17	10.1007/s10531-007-9255-6
Coesel, PFM; Krienitz, L	Diversity and geographic distribution of desmids and other coccoid green algae	BIODIVERSITY AND CONSERVATION	Taxonomic diversity of desmids and other coccoid green algae is discussed in relation to different species concepts. For want of unambiguous criteria about species delimitation, no reliable estimations of global species richness can be given. Application of the biological species concept is seriously hampered by lack of sexual reproduction in many species. Molecular analyses demonstrated cases of close affiliation between morphologically highly different taxa and, contrary, examples of little relationship between morphologically similar taxa. Despite the fact that desmids and chlorococcal algae, because of their microbial nature, can be readily distributed, cosmopolitan species are relatively scarce. The geographic distribution of some well-recognizable morphospecies is discussed in detail. Of some species a recent extension of their area could be established, e.g., in the desmids Micrasterias americana and Euastrum germanicum, and in the chlorococcaleans Desmodesmus perforatus and Pediastrum simplex.	2008	17	10.1007/s10531-007-9256-5
Vanormelingen, P; Verleyen, E; Vyverman, W	The diversity and distribution of diatoms: from cosmopolitanism to narrow endemism	BIODIVERSITY AND CONSERVATION	It has been claimed that microbial taxa will not exhibit endemism because their enormous populations remove dispersal as an effective constraint on geographical range. Here we review evidence that challenges this ubiquity hypothesis for the most speciose group of microbial eukaryotes, the diatoms. Detailed taxonomic inventories using fine-grained morphological characteristics, molecular markers, and crossing experiments have revealed that the geographic distribution of diatoms ranges from global to narrow endemic. Records of human-mediated introductions of exotic species further provide a strong indication that geographic dispersal was limiting in the past. Finally, recent studies have revealed that diatom community structure and diversity are influenced by geographical factors independent of environmental conditions. Diatom communities are thus regulated by the same processes that operate in macro-organisms, although possibly to a different degree, implying that dispersal limitation is significant and the endemism observed in isolated areas is real. These results underscore the pressing need to (1) continue research into diatom biology, ecology and the factors driving diatom species diversity and geographic distributions, and (2) protect relatively isolated areas against further introductions of exotic species.	2008	17	10.1007/s10531-007-9257-4
Logue, JB; Burgmann, H; Robinson, CT	Progress in the ecological genetics and biodiversity of freshwater bacteria	BIOSCIENCE	The field of microbial ecology has grown tremendously with the advent of novel molecular techniques, allowing the study of uncultured microbes in the environment, and producing a paradigm shift: now, rather than using bacteria cultures for evaluating cell-specific questions, researchers use RNA and DNA techniques to examine more broad-based ecological and evolutionary constructs such as biogeography and the long-debated biological species concept. Recent work has begun to relate bacteria functional genes to ecosystem processes and functioning, thereby enabling abetter understanding of the interactive role of bacteria in different and often-changing environments. The field continues to mature and will most likely make substantial contributions in the future with additional efforts that include metagenomics and genomics. Here we review progress in the application of molecular techniques to study microbial communities in freshwater environments.	2008	58	10.1641/B580205
Nikitenko, BL	The early jurassic to aalenian paleobiogeography of the arctic realm: Implication of microbenthos (foraminifers and ostracodes)	STRATIGRAPHY AND GEOLOGICAL CORRELATION	Stages in evolution of the Early Jurassic to Aalenian foraminifers and ostracodes are established based on the analyzed diversity dynamics of respective microfauna associations. Evolution of foraminifers is divided in two, the Hettangian-initial early Toarcian and the late early Toarcian-Aalenian stages, while the identical first stage in evolution of ostracodes has been followed by the late early Toarcian-Callovian stage. During the Jurassic, periodic migrations of foraminiferal and ostracod genera and species, which were interrelated with large transgressions and climatic changes, took place in the initial late and mid-late Pliensbachian, initial early Toarcian, and the late Toarcian-early Aalenian. Being isolated to the maximum extent in the second half of the late Aalenian, the Arctic basin lost connections with seas of northwestern Europe. The Early Jurassic to Aalenian biogeography of the Arctic basin is established based on the results of cluster analysis (group average link method, Jaccard coefficient, presence or absence of foraminifers and ostracodes genera) with due account for preceding and subsequent formation history of microbenthos structure in biochores. The distinguished biochores are ranked as realms and provinces of foraminifers and ostracodes. As is established, contours of the realms and provinces populated by different groups of microbenthos did not coincide and changed with time. Ecotones between the realms (e.g., the North Sea province) changed their localitization to be a part of the Arctic or Boreal Atlantic realms in different epochs. The Early-Middle Jurassic sedimentary successions of the Arctic basins reveal several levels of sharp taxonomic changes in composition of microbenthos under influence of the first-order abiotic factors.	2008	16	10.1134/S086959380801005X
De Wever, A; Van der Gucht, K; Muylaert, K; Cousin, S; Vyverman, W	Clone library analysis reveals an unusual composition and strong habitat partitioning of pelagic bacterial communities in Lake Tanganyika	AQUATIC MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	The phylogenetic composition of bacterioplankton communities in Lake Tanganyika was studied by sequencing 16S rRNA gene clones. Four clone libraries were constructed from oxic epilimnion and anoxic hypolimnion samples collected during the dry season of 2002 in the northern and southern basins. Clone library analysis revealed a bacterial community composition (BCC) differing from previously studied freshwater systems and clear differences between both epi- and hypolimnion and the northern and southern basins. We detected few representatives of the Actinobacteria, Bacteroidetes, Cyanobacteria, and Alpha- and Betaproteobacteria commonly found in freshwater environments in temperate and cold regions, but observed a remarkably high number of clones belonging to Chloroflexi and Gammaproteobacteria. This was especially the case in the hypolimmon, but also in the epilimnion in the south of the lake, which suggests that the BCC may be influenced by seasonal upwelling. In total, nearly half of the detected operational taxonomical units were not closely related to bacteria previously observed in freshwater environments. Even in the epilimnetic clone libraries, genotypes commonly reported from oxic freshwater environments (e.g. ACK4, LD12, Sta2-30) were rare or absent.	2008	50	10.3354/arne01157
Tyerman, JG; Bertrand, M; Spencer, CC; Doebeli, M	Experimental demonstration of ecological character displacement	BMC EVOLUTIONARY BIOLOGY	Background: The evolutionary consequences of competition are of great interest to researchers studying sympatric speciation, adaptive radiation, species coexistence and ecological assembly. Competitions role in driving evolutionary change in phenotypic distributions, and thus causing ecological character displacement, has been inferred from biogeographical data and measurements of divergent selection on a focal species in the presence of competitors. However, direct experimental demonstrations of character displacement due to competition are rare. Results: We demonstrate a causal role for competition in ecological character displacement. Using populations of the bacterium Escherichia coli that have adaptively diversified into ecotypes exploiting different carbon resources, we show that when interspecific competition is relaxed, phenotypic distributions converge. When we reinstate competition, phenotypic distributions diverge. Conclusion: This accordion-like dynamic provides direct experimental evidence that competition for resources can cause evolutionary shifts in resource-related characters.	2008	8	10.1186/1471-2148-8-34
Zapata, J; Fernandez, L	Morphology and Morphometry of Apodera vas (Certes, 1889) (Protozoa: Testacea) from Two Peatlands in Southern Chile	ACTA PROTOZOOLOGICA	Although the testate amoebae Apodera vas, is frequently cited as evidence of a microorganism with restricted distribution, no detailed morphometric studies have been carried Out on this organism. Here, we present a study on morphology and morphometry of two populations from peatlands in southern Chile. Analysis indicates that A. vas is a polymorphic species, characterized by a reduced main class, favoring the subsidiary classes, capable of presenting 2 to 3 main morphotypes in each population. Multivariate analysis indicates that the morphological characters: test width (broad lateral view) and neck length, are the most discriminating characters ill the Populations studied. The coefficient of variation in this species was slightly variable and lower than that of other species of testate amoebae. Similarly, not all the characters were inter-correlated and the degree of correlation between characters differed in the two populations.	2008	47	
van der Gast, CJ	Islands shaping thought in microbial ecology	ADVANCES IN APPLIED MICROBIOLOGY, VOL 64		2008	64	10.1016/S0065-2164(08)00406-1
Achtman, M	Evolution, Population Structure, and Phylogeography of Genetically Monomorphic Bacterial Pathogens	ANNUAL REVIEW OF MICROBIOLOGY	Genetically monomorphic bacteria contain so little sequence diversity that sequencing a few gene fragments yields little or no information. As a result, our understanding of their evolutionary patterns presents greater technical challenges than exist for genetically diverse microbes. These challenges are now being met by analyses at the genomic level for diverse types of genetic variation, the most promising of which are single nucleotide polymorphisms. Many of the most virulent bacterial pathogens are genetically monomorphic, and understanding their evolutionary and phylogeographic patterns will help our understanding of the effects of infectious disease on human history	2008	62	10.1146/annurev.micro.62.081307.162832
Herndl, GJ; Agogue, H; Baltar, F; Reinthaler, T; Sintes, E; Varela, MM	Regulation of aquatic microbial processes: the A microbial loop of the sunlit surface waters and the dark ocean dissected	AQUATIC MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Our understanding of microbial food web interactions in the ocean is essentially based on research performed in the euphotic layer, where the interactions between phytoplankton and prokaryotic plankton, mainly heterotrophic Bacteria, are well established. In the euphotic layer, particularly in meso- and eutrophic waters, prokaryotic plankton are mainly top-down controlled by bacterivorous flagellates and viruses, affecting metabolically active, fast growing populations more than dormant stages. In the meso- and bathypelagic realm of the ocean, however, prokaryotic plankton are thought to be mainly bottom-up controlled, because the heterotrophic component of the prokaryotic community is limited by the availability of organic carbon. However, deep-water prokaryotes exhibit a number of peculiarities compared to prokaryotes in the euphotic layer, among which are a large genome size and a gene repertoire indicative of a predominately surface-attached mode of life. This indicates that deep-water prokaryotic activity might be primarily associated with particles. Our present knowledge indicates that the microbial communities and their interactions in the deep ocean are likely very different from those known from surface waters. Increasing efforts to shed light on the microbial biota of the oceans interior will likely lead to the discovery of novel metabolic pathways in prokaryotes and to the resolution of the current discrepancy between the geochemical evidence of remineralization rates of organic matter and actual measurements.	2008	53	10.3354/ame01225
Psenner, R; Alfreider, A; Schwarz, A	Aquatic Microbial Ecology: Water Desert, Microcosm, Ecosystem. Whats Next?	INTERNATIONAL REVIEW OF HYDROBIOLOGY	Aquatic microbial ecology aims at nothing less than explaining the world from ecological scratch. It develops theories, concepts and models about the small and invisible living world that is at the bottom of every macroscopic aquatic system. In this paper we propose to look at the development of Aquatic Microbial Ecology as a reiteration of classical (eukaryotic) limnology and oceanography. This was conceptualized moving historically from the so-called water desert to microcosm to ecosystem. Each of these concepts characterizes a particular historical field of knowledge that embraces also practices and theories about living beings in aquatic environments. Concerning the question of who is there, however, Aquatic Microbial Ecology historically developed in reverse order. Repetition, reiteration and replication notwithstanding, Aquatic Microbial Ecology has contributed new ideas, theories and methods to the whole field of ecology as well as to microbiology. The disciplining of Aquatic Microbial Ecology happened in the larger field of plankton biology, and it is still attached to this biological domain, even conceiving of itself very self-consciously as a discipline of its own. Today, Aquatic Microbial Ecology as a discipline is much broader than plankton ecology ever was, for it includes not only oceans and freshwaters but also benthic, interstitial and groundwater systems. The success of Aquatic Microbial Ecology is expressed by its influence on other fields in ecology. The challenge is to further develop its theoretical and methodological features while at the same time contributing to current pressing problems such as climate change or the management of global water resources.	2008	93	10.1002/iroh.200711044
Inagaki, F; Nakagawa, S	Spatial Distribution of the Subseafloor Life: Diversity and Biogeography	LINKS BETWEEN GEOLOGICAL PROCESSES, MICROBIAL ACTIVITIES & EVOLUTION OF LIFE: MICROBES AND GEOLOGY	Marine subsurface sediments that cover more than two-thirds of the Earth harbor remarkable numbers of microbial cells. Subseafloor microbial activities may affect global biogeochemical cycles; however, our knowledge of the deep-subseafloor biosphere remains very limited. Recent molecular ecological studies have shown that subseafloor microbial communities are predominantly composed of yet -uncultivated, -uncharacterized bacteria and archaea with great phylogenetic diversity. Some phylogenetic groups are commonly detected in global marine sediments regardless of location and depth, and environmental factors such as sedimentological, geochemical, and geophysical characteristics probably control their activities, biomass, and community structures. This chapter reviews emerging patterns of microbial diversity in deeply buried marine sediments and discusses the potential ecological roles and distribution of microbial communities.	2008	4	
Cermeno, P; Figueiras, FG	Species richness and cell-size distribution: size structure of phytoplankton communities	MARINE ECOLOGY PROGRESS SERIES	If the size dependence of species richness varies across ecosystems, it should be reflected in the size distribution of total abundance. Using a database of phytoplankton abundance, species composition and cell size from coastal, shelf and open-ocean environments, we show that the biogeographical patterns of phytoplankton size distribution in the ocean are a result of systematic changes in the relationship between species richness and cell size. Our results indicate that, regardless of the environmental conditions, population abundance decreases consistently to the -3/4 power of cell size. By contrast, marine phytoplankton diversity peaks at small sizes in oligotrophic waters but is either a log-normal function or independent of cell size in eutrophic systems. It is argued that, operating on evolutionary time scales, size-dependent biophysical constraints for resource acquisition are reflected in the size distribution of species richness and consequently in the size structure of phytoplankton communities in the ocean. These findings indicate that the way in which biological diversity changes with body size is crucial to a better understanding of the structure and functioning of microbial plankton communities and how energy flows through pelagic ecosystems.	2008	357	10.3354/meps07293
Sakami, T	Seasonal and Spatial Variation of Bacterial Community Structure in River-Mouth Areas of Gokasho Bay, Japan	MICROBES AND ENVIRONMENTS	This study investigated seasonal and spatial dynamics of the bacterial community in Gokasho bay with denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) profiles of PCR-amplified 16S rRNA gene fragments. The community structure was related to physico-chemical water conditions in the area examined. The bacterial community clustered into three groups: bacteria collected during January May; those collected from water at the surface in July and September; and those collected from water at the bottom in July and September and from both depths in November. Canonical correspondence analyses indicated that the seasonal variability in bacterial community was associated with water temperature succession. On the other hand, concentrations of particulate organic matter and nitrite plus nitrate were related to the vertical change in community structure in summer and autumn as well as HNF abundance, suggesting that both top-down and bottom-up control affected the community. The influence of salinity was insignificant though bacterial production was related to salinity. No relationship was observed between the variation in community structure and that in hydrolytic enzyme activity. The results indicate that changes in bacterial activity are not coupled with variation in community structure.	2008	23	10.1264/jsme2.ME08513
Nikitenko, B; Shurygin, B; Mickey, M	High resolution stratigraphy of the Lower Jurassic and Aalenian of Arctic regions as the basis for detailed palaeobiogeographic reconstructions	NORWEGIAN JOURNAL OF GEOLOGY	Lower Jurassic and Aalenian deposits are widespread in the Arctic Basin and in northwestern Europe. The succession of Lower Jurassic lithologic units is very similar throughout the Arctic regions. The Lower Toarcian is represented by dark-gray, organic-rich mudstones and often bituminous mudstones developed uniformly over the whole area. All deposits contain rich assemblages of foraminifers, ostracods and palynomorphs, as well as less abundant ammonites and bivalves, providing a mean for correlation of the lithologic units. The established Jurassic zonal subdivisions have been studied in all areas of the Arctic Basin using original material as well as published data. Thus, the Jurassic zonal subdivision of northern Siberia, based on ammonites, bivalves, foraminifers and ostracods, may be considered as the Boreal Zonal Standard. The analysis of biotic and abiotic events as well as the geographic distribution of microbenthos result in the definition of biogeographic realms and provinces based on foraminifer and ostracode data for the Early Jurassic and Aalenian. The differentiation of microbenthos associations is based on the multivariate analysis of characteristic taxa. The configurations of the boundaries between provinces and realms, based on the geographic distribution of the different groups of benthos, changed during geological time.	2008	88	
Medlin, LK	If everything is everywhere, do they share a common gene pool?	GENE	Marine phytoplanktons are highly dispersed with large population sizes and are often considered to be homogenous over their entire range. Thus, using this definition, one would predict that everything is everywhere for these microbes. However, recent molecular analyses have shown both spatial and temporal compartmentalisation in phytoplankton communities, thus calling into question the idea that everything is everywhere, especially if they do not share a global gene pool. Examples are present to document the range of biogeography that has been reported in the phytoplankton and a hypothesis as to how this relates to species evolution on a geological time scale is provided. (C) 2007 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2007	406	10.1016/j.gene.2007.09.011
Van der Gucht, K; Cottenie, K; Muylaert, K; Vloemans, N; Cousin, S; Declerck, S; Jeppesen, E; Conde-Porcuna, JM; Schwenk, K; Zwart, G; Degans, H; Vyverman, W; De Meester, L	The power of species sorting: Local factors drive bacterial community composition over a wide range of spatial scales	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	There is a vivid debate on the relative importance of local and regional factors in shaping microbial communities, and on whether microbial organisms show a biogeographic signature in their distribution. Taking a metacommunity approach, spatial factors can become important either through dispersal limitation (compare large spatial scales) or mass effects (in case of strongly connected systems). We here analyze two datasets on bacterial communities [characterized by community fingerprinting through denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE)] in meso- to eutrophic shallow lakes to investigate the importance of spatial factors at three contrasting scales. Variation partitioning on datasets of both the bacterial communities of 11 shallow lakes that are part of a strongly interconnected and densely packed pond system < 1 km apart, three groups of shallow lakes approximate to 100 km apart, as well as these three groups of shallow lakes combined that span a large part of a North-South gradient in Europe (> 2,500 km) shows a strong impact of local environmental factors on bacterial community composition, with a marginal impact of spatial distance. Our results indicate that dispersal is not strongly limiting even at large spatial scales, and that mass effects do not have a strong impact on bacterial communities even in physically connected systems. We suggest that the fast population growth rates of bacteria facilitate efficient species sorting along environmental gradients in bacterial communities over a very broad range of dispersal rates.	2007	104	10.1073/pnas.0707200104
Arbeli, Z; Fuentes, CL	Accelerated biodegradation of pesticides: An overview of the phenomenon, its basis and possible solutions; and a discussion on the tropical dimension	CROP PROTECTION	Accelerated microbial degradation is the name commonly given to the phenomenon associated with a significant increase in the rate of degradation of a pesticide in soil following a previous application of the same pesticide and also to the closely related phenomenon involving an unexpectedly rapid degradation of a pesticide following a previous application of another pesticide, usually of similar chemical structure. It apparently is caused by an adaptation of one or more species of microorganism present to metabolize the pesticide. In the late 1940s it was recognized that repeated applications of 2,4-D accelerated its degradation. Studies done in the 1970s and 1980s revealed that many pesticides in use were susceptible to the phenomenon and that it was reducing the efficacy of a number of commercial products especially those for which applications at seeding time were expected to provide prolonged pest control. Further work since that time has shown the dynamic nature of the phenomenon as a number of pesticides which were previously shown to be unaffected are now susceptible. The phenomenon can result in significantly reduced crop yields and coping with it usually involves additional costs. In the following manuscript we give an overview of this phenomenon, its basis and possible solutions; and attempt to predict how should biogeography factors and tropical conditions influence the phenomena. (c) 2007 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2007	26	10.1016/j.cropro.2007.03.009
Herfort, L; Schouten, S; Abbas, B; Veldhuis, MJW; Coolen, MJL; Wuchter, C; Boon, JP; Herndl, GJ; Damste, JSS	Variations in spatial and temporal distribution of Archaea in the North Sea in relation to environmental variables	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	The spatial and temporal distribution of pelagic Archaea was studied in the southern North Sea by rRNA hybridization, sequencing and quantification of 16S rRNA gene and membrane lipid analyses and related to physical, chemical and biological parameters to determine the factors influencing archaeal biogeography. A clear temporal variability was observed, with marine Crenarchaeota (Group I.1a) being relatively more abundant in winter and Euryarchaeota dominating the archaeal assemblage in spring and summer. Spatial differences in the lateral distribution of Crenarchaeota were also evident. In fact, their abundance was positively correlated with the copy number of the gene encoding the alpha subunit of crenarchaeotal ammonia monooxygenase (amoA) and with concentrations of ammonia, nitrate, nitrite and phosphorus. This suggests that most Crenarchaeota in the North Sea are nitrifiers and that their distribution is determined by nutrient concentrations. However, Crenarchaeota were not abundant when larger phytoplankton (> 3 mu m) dominated the algal population. It is hypothesized that together with nutrient concentration, phytoplankton biomass and community structure can predict crenarchaeotal abundance in the southern North Sea. Euryarchaeotal abundance was positively correlated with chlorophyll a concentrations, but not with phytoplankton community structure. Whether this is related to the potential of Euryarchaeota to perform aerobic anoxygenic phototrophy remains to be shown, but the conspicuous seasonal distribution pattern of Crenarchaeota and Euryarchaeota suggests that they occupy a different ecological niche.	2007	62	10.1111/j.1574-6941.2007.00397.x
Zeng, YH; Chen, XH; Jiao, NZ	Genetic diversity assessment of anoxygenic photosynthetic bacteria by distance-based grouping analysis of pufM sequences	LETTERS IN APPLIED MICROBIOLOGY	To assess how completely the diversity of anoxygenic phototrophic bacteria (APB) was sampled in natural environments. All nucleotide sequences of the APB marker gene pufM from cultures and environmental clones were retrieved from the GenBank database. A set of cutoff values (sequence distances 0.06, 0.15 and 0.48 for species, genus, and (sub)phylum levels, respectively) was established using a distance-based grouping program. Analysis of the environmental clones revealed that current efforts on APB isolation and sampling in natural environments are largely inadequate. Analysis of the average distance between each identified genus and an uncultured environmental pufM sequence indicated that the majority of cultured APB genera lack environmental representatives. The distance-based grouping method is fast and efficient for bulk functional gene sequences analysis. The results clearly show that we are at a relatively early stage in sampling the global richness of APB species. Periodical assessment will undoubtedly facilitate in-depth analysis of potential biogeographical distribution pattern of APB. This is the first attempt to assess the present understanding of APB diversity in natural environments. The method used is also useful for assessing the diversity of other functional genes.	2007	45	10.1111/j.1472-765X.2007.02247.x
Newton, RJ; Jones, SE; Helmus, MR; McMahon, KD	Phylogenetic ecology of the freshwater Actinobacteria acI lineage	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	The acI lineage of freshwater Actinobacteria is a cosmopolitan and often numerically dominant member of lake bacterial communities. We conducted a survey of acI 16S rRNA genes and 16S-23S rRNA internal transcribed spacer regions from 18 Wisconsin lakes and used standard nonphylogenetic and phylogenetic statistical approaches to investigate the factors that determine acI community composition at the local scale (within lakes) and at the regional scale (across lakes). Phylogenetic reconstruction of 434 acI 16S rRNA genes revealed a well-defined and highly resolved phylogeny. Eleven previously unrecognized monophyletic clades, each with >= 97.9% within-clade 16S rRNA gene sequence identity, were identified. Clade community similarity positively correlated with lake environmental similarity but not with geographic distance, implying that the lakes represent a single biotic region containing environmental filters for communities that have similar compositions. Phylogenetically disparate clades within the acI lineage were most abundant at the regional scale, and local communities were comprised of more closely related clades. Lake pH was a strong predictor of the community composition, but only when lakes with a pH below 6 were included in the data set. In the remaining lakes (pH above 6) biogeographic patterns in the landscape were instead a predictor of the observed acI community structure. The nonrandom distribution of the newly defined acI clades suggests potential ecophysiological differences between the clades, with acI clades AII, BII, and BIII preferring acidic lakes and acI clades AII, AVI, and BI preferring more alkaline lakes.	2007	73	10.1128/AEM.00794-07
Lin, DX; Man, CX; Wang, ET; Chen, WX	Diverse rhizobia that nodulate two species of Kummerowia in China	ARCHIVES OF MICROBIOLOGY	A total of 63 bacterial strains were isolated from root nodules of Kummerowia striata and K. stipulacea grown in different geographic regions of China. These bacteria could be divided into fast-growing (FG) rhizobia and slow-growing (SG) rhizobia according to their growth rate. Genetic diversity and taxonomic relationships among these rhizobia were revealed by PCR-based 16 S rDNA RFLP and sequencing, 16 S-IGS RFLP, SDS-PAGE of whole cell soluble proteins, BOX-PCR and symbiotic gene (nifH/nodC) analyses. The symbiotic FG strains were mainly isolated from temperate regions and they were identified as four genomic species in Rhizobium and Sinorhizobium meliloti based on the consensus of grouping results. The SG strains were classified as five genomic species within Bradyrhizobium and they were mainly isolated fron the subtropic and tropical regions. The phylogenetic analyses of nifH and nodC genes showed relationships similar to that of 16 S rDNA but the symbiotic genes of Bradyrhizobium strains isolated from Kummerowia were distinct from those isolated from Arachis and soybean. These results offered evidence for rhizobial biogeography and demonstrated that the Kummerowia-nodulating ability might have evolved independently in different regions in association with distinctive genomic species of rhizobia.	2007	188	10.1007/s00203-007-0271-4
Ramette, A	Multivariate analyses in microbial ecology	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Environmental microbiology is undergoing a dramatic revolution due to the increasing accumulation of biological information and contextual environmental parameters. This will not only enable a better identification of diversity patterns, but will also shed more light on the associated environmental conditions, spatial locations, and seasonal fluctuations, which could explain such patterns. Complex ecological questions may now be addressed using multivariate statistical analyses, which represent a vast potential of techniques that are still underexploited. Here, well-established exploratory and hypothesis-driven approaches are reviewed, so as to foster their addition to the microbial ecologist toolbox. Because such tools aim at reducing data set complexity, at identifying major patterns and putative causal factors, they will certainly find many applications in microbial ecology.	2007	62	10.1111/j.1574-6941.2007.00375.x
Woodcock, S; van der Gast, CJ; Bell, T; Lunn, M; Curtis, TP; Head, IM; Sloan, WT	Neutral assembly of bacterial communities	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Two recent, independent advances in ecology have generated interest and controversy: the development of neutral community models (NCMs) and the extension of biogeographical relationships into the microbial world. Here these two advances are linked by predicting an observed microbial taxa-volume relationship using an NCM and provide the strongest evidence so far for neutral community assembly in any group of organisms, macro or micro. Previously, NCMs have only ever been fitted using species-abundance distributions of macroorganisms at a single site or at one scale and parameter values have been calibrated on a case-by-case basis. Because NCMs predict a malleable two-parameter taxa-abundance distribution, this is a weak test of neutral community assembly and, hence, of the predictive power of NCMs. Here the two parameters of an NCM are calibrated using the taxa-abundance distribution observed in a small waterborne bacterial community housed in a bark-lined tree-hole in a beech tree. Using these parameters, unchanged, the taxa-abundance distributions and taxa-volume relationship observed in 26 other beech tree communities whose sizes span three orders of magnitude could be predicted. In doing so, a simple quantitative ecological mechanism to explain observations in microbial ecology is simultaneously offered and the predictive power of NCMs is demonstrated.	2007	62	10.1111/j.1574-6941.2007.00379.x
Smith, VH	Microbial diversity-productivity relationships in aquatic ecosystems	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Thanks to recent advances in molecular biology, ones knowledge of microbial co-occurrence patterns, microbial biogeography and microbial biodiversity is expanding rapidly. This MiniReview explores microbial diversity-productivity relationships in the light of what is known from the general ecology literature. Analyses of microbial diversity-productivity relationships from 70 natural, experimental, and engineered aquatic ecosystems reveal patterns that are strikingly similar to those that have long been documented for communities of macroorganisms. Microbial ecology and the general science of ecology are thus continuing to converge.	2007	62	10.1111/j.1574-6941.2007.00381.x
Gray, ND; Brown, A; Nelson, DR; Pickup, RW; Rowan, AK; Head, IM	The biogeographical distribution of closely related freshwater sediment bacteria is determined by environmental selection	ISME JOURNAL	The role of environmental selection in governing the structure of communities of freshwater sulfur bacteria (Achromatium spp) was experimentally tested by mixing sediments from two geographically separated lakes (Rydal Water (RY) and Hell Kettles (HK)) that harboured Achromatium spp. Community profiles of Achromatium spp in sediment microcosms at day 0 and after 60 days were compared to determine whether initial Achromatium community composition or subsequent selection by the sediment environment had greater influence in dictating the final Achromatium community structure. It was found that Achromatium spp from the HK community became established in mixed sediments at the expense of members of the RY community. This selection for the HK Achromatium community was more pronounced when sediment composition was manipulated to resemble HK sediments. Our findings definitively demonstrate that environmental selection is the primary determinant of Achromatium community structure in these sediments.	2007	1	10.1038/ismej.2007.74
Adhitya, A; Thomas, FIM; Ward, BB	Diversity of assimilatory nitrate reductase genes from plankton and epiphytes associated with a seagrass bed	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Assimilatory nitrate reductase gene fragments were isolated from epiphytes and plankton associated with seagrass blades collected from Tampa Bay, Florida, USA. Nitrate reductase genes from diatoms (NR) and heterotrophic bacteria (nasA) were amplified by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) using two sets of degenerate primers. A total of 129 NR and 75 nasA clones from four clone libraries, two from each of epiphytic and planktonic components, were sequenced and aligned. In addition, genomic DNA sequences for the NR fragment were obtained from Skeletonema costatum and Thalassiosira weissflogii diatom cultures. Rarefaction analysis with an operational taxonomic unit cut-off of 6% indicated that diversity of the NR and nasA clone libraries were similar, and that sequencing of the clone libraries was not yet saturated. Phylogenetic analysis indicated that 121 of the 129 NR clones sequenced were similar to diatom sequences. Of the eight non-diatom sequences, four were most closely related to the sequence of Chlorella vulgaris. Introns were found in 8% of the Tampa Bay NR sequences; introns were also observed in S. costatum, but not T. weissflogii. Introns from within the same clone library exhibited close similarity in nucleotide sequence, position and length; the corresponding exon sequences were unique. Introns from within the same component were similar in position and length, but not in nucleotide sequence. These findings raise questions about the function of introns, and mechanisms or time evolution of intron formation. A large cluster of 14 of the 75 nasA sequences was similar to sequences from Vibrio species; other sequences were closely related to sequences from Alteromonas, alpha-proteobacteria and Marinomonas-like species. Biogeographically consistent patterns were observed for the nasA Tampa Bay sequences compared with sequences from other locations: for example, Tampa Bay sequences were similar to those from the South Atlantic Bight, but not the Barents Sea. The Tampa Bay NR clone libraries contained sequences that exhibited phylogenetic similarity with sequences from coastal New Jersey and Monterey Bay, USA. For both NR and nasA, the sequences formed phylogenetic clusters containing nitrate reductase gene fragments that were common to both plankton and epiphyte components, and sequences that were unique to just one component. The implication that some organisms may be differentially represented in epiphytic versus planktonic components of the community suggests that local environmental conditions may have ramifications for regulation of nitrate assimilation processes, community composition, and ecosystem function.	2007	54	10.1007/s00248-006-9175-0
Voss, JD; Mills, DK; Myers, JL; Remily, ER; Richardson, LL	Black band disease microbial community variation on corals in three regions of the wider Caribbean	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Black band disease (BBD) is a pathogenic consortium of microorganisms that primarily affects massive framework-building scleractinian corals on reefs worldwide. There has been considerable debate concerning the microbial community composition of BBD. The aim of this study was to utilize microbial profiling to assess overall patterns of variation in the BBD bacterial community with respect to geographic location, host coral species, time, and nutrient regime. Length heterogeneity polymerase chain reaction (LH-PCR) was employed to differentiate BBD communities based on the natural variation in the sequence lengths within hypervariable domains of the 16S rRNA gene. Analysis of LH-PCR profiles of 97 BBD samples using multivariate ordination methods and analysis of similarity revealed significant clustering with respect to geographic region when comparing BBD sampled from reefs near Lee Stocking Island in the Bahamas Exuma Chain, the Northern Florida Keys (NFK), and St. John in the US Virgin Islands. There was much variability in BBD community composition on a regional basis, between sites in the NFK, and in terms of coral host species. The observed differences among BBD microbial community profiles were driven primarily by variation in relative abundance of 313-316-bp amplicons, which correspond to cyanobacteria and alpha-proteobacteria. The results obtained in this study support previous reports of intrinsic variability and complexity of the BBD microbial community but also suggest that this variability has biogeographic patterns.	2007	54	10.1007/s00248-007-9234-1
Goni-Urriza, MS; Point, D; Amouroux, D; Guyoneaud, R; Donard, OFX; Caumette, P; Duran, R	Bacterial community structure along the Adour estuary (French Atlantic coast): influence of salinity gradient versus metal contamination	AQUATIC MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Salinity, other physico-chemical parameters and anthropogenic pollution are the main factors affecting bacterial communities in estuaries. We estimated the impact of these parameters on the distribution of bacterial communities in the Adour estuary (France), a moderately Polluted water body characterized by short residence times of particles and water and absence of a maximum turbidity zone. Eight stations were established along the salinity gradient from freshwater to marine conditions. For the 3 typical estuarine stations (water mixing zone), samples were collected at both low and high tide and at different depths according to the position of the halocline. This sampling strategy generated 35 samples with different degrees of mixing between fresh water and seawater. All the samples were characterized by their physico-chemical parameters and trace metal contents (as a contamination tracer). The structure of bacterial communities was determined by T-RFLP fingerprinting. The metal-salinity profiles suggested dilution processes and/or usual geochemical reactivity for the elements sensitive to sorption/desorption mechanisms (Cd, Mn). Metal concentrations were low, with no evidence of contaminated plumes, suggesting that metal concentrations were not influencing bacterial diversity. A well-established estuarine bacterial community was observed, comprising mostly Cyanobacteria, Planctomyces and Alphaproteobacteria. This community was different from fresh and seawater communities, and a shift in community composition was observed between 10 and 34 PSU. Although residence time in the Adour estuary is very short, the salinity and halocline in this water body are likely to be the main parameters influencing bacterial community composition.	2007	49	10.3354/ame01128
Webster, G; Yarram, L; Freese, E; Koster, J; Sass, H; Parkes, RJ; Weightman, AJ	Distribution of candidate division JS1 and other Bacteria in tidal sediments of the German Wadden Sea using targeted 16S rRNA gene PCR-DGGE	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	The bacterial candidate division JS1 dominates a number of 16S rRNA gene libraries from deep subseafloor sediments, yet its distribution in shallow, subsurface sediments has still to be fully documented. Sediment cores (down to 5.5 m) from Wadden Sea tidal flats (Neuharlingersieler Nacken and Groninger Plate) were screened for JS1 16S rRNA genes using targeted PCR-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE), which also detects some other important Bacteria. Bacterial subpopulations at both sites were dominated by Gammaproteobacteria in the upper sediment layers (down to 2 m) and in deeper layers by members of the Chloroflexi. The deeper layers of Neuharlingersieler Nacken consisted of grey mud with low sulphate (0.1-10 mM), elevated total organic carbon (TOC) (similar to 1-2%) and JS1 sequences were abundant. In contrast, the deeper sandy layers of Groninger Plate, despite also having reduced sulphate concentrations, had lower TOC (< 0.6%) with few detectable JS1 sequences. Results indicated that JS1 prefers muddy, shallow, subsurface sediments with reduced sulphate, whereas Chloroflexi may out-compete JS1 in shallow, sandy, subsurface sediments. Bacterial population changes at both sites (similar to 2 m) were confirmed by cluster analysis of DGGE profiles, which correlated with increased recalcitrance of the organic matter. This study extends the biogeographical range of JS1. The presence of JS1 and Chloroflexi in Wadden Sea sediments demonstrates that subsurface tidal flats contain similar prokaryotic populations to those found in the deeper subseafloor biosphere.	2007	62	10.1111/j.1574-6941.2007.00372.x
Opelt, K; Berg, C; Schonmann, S; Eberl, L; Berg, G	High specificity but contrasting biodiversity of Sphagnum-associated bacterial and plant communities in bog ecosystems independent of the geographical region	ISME JOURNAL	Mosses represent ecological niches that harbor a hitherto largely uncharacterized microbial diversity. To investigate which factors affect the biodiversity of bryophyte-associated bacteria, we analyzed the bacterial communities associated with two moss species, which exhibit different ecological behaviors and importance in bog ecosystems, Sphagnum magellanicum and Sphagnum fallax, from six temperate and boreal bogs in Germany and Norway. Furthermore, their surrounding plant communities were studied. Molecular analysis of bacterial communities was determined by single-strand conformation polymorphism (SSCP) analysis using eubacterial and genus-specific primers for the dominant genera Burkholderia and Serratia as well as by sequence analysis of a Burkholderia 16S rRNA gene clone library. Plant communities were analyzed by monitoring the abundance and composition of bryophyte and vascular plant species, and by determining ecological indicator values. Interestingly, we found a high degree of host specificity for associated bacterial and plant communities of both Sphagnum species independent of the geographical region. Calculation of diversity indices on the basis of SSCP gels showed that the S. fallax-associated communities displayed a statistically significant higher degree of diversity than those associated with S. magellanicum. In contrast, analyses of plant communities of Sphagnum-specific habitats resulted in a higher diversity of S. magellanicum-specific habitats for all six sites. The higher content of nutrients in the S. fallax-associated ecosystems can explain higher diversity of microorganisms.	2007	1	10.1038/ismej.2007.58
Smith, HG; Wilkinson, DM	Not all free-living microorganisms have cosmopolitan distributions - the case of Nebela (Apodera) vas Certes (Protozoa : Amoebozoa : Arcellinida)	JOURNAL OF BIOGEOGRAPHY	Aim To review and critically assess the evidence that the testate amoeba species Nebela vas does not have a cosmopolitan distribution, in contradiction to the paradigm of microbial distribution that everything is everywhere. Location Terrestrial and wetland habitats world-wide. Methods Relevant data were assembled on the morphology, ecology and global geographical distribution of N. vas from a comprehensive literature review of published original records. The data were collated, analysed and summarized. The roles of long-term and short-term agents of dispersal are discussed. Results A clear and repeated pattern has been elucidated of a microbial species, with a distinctive and unmistakeable morphology, that inhabits acid, damp terrestrial and wetland habitats in the southern cool-temperate and sub-Antarctic zones - including similar high-altitude habitats in the Tropics. It is almost entirely confined to the Gondwanaland continents and Southern Hemisphere islands. It is definitively absent from Holarctic regions. It is proposed that the continental distribution of N. vas is a consequence of continental drift following its original speciation in the Mesozoic or earlier, whereas its distribution on sub-Antarctic islands (glaciated in the Pleistocene) has been effected by dispersal from South America by wind around the Southern Ocean. Main conclusion Nebela vas is a proven instance of a microbial species that does not have a cosmopolitan distribution.	2007	34	10.1111/j.1365-2699.2007.01733.x
El-Bana, MI; Li, ZQ; Nijs, I	Role of host identity in effects of phytogenic mounds on plant assemblages and species richness on coastal arid dunes	JOURNAL OF VEGETATION SCIENCE	Question: Phytogenic mounds ( nebkhas) - the natural accumulation of wind- blown sediments within or around the canopies of plants - have been proposed as important structures for locally maintaining high species richness in coastal and arid ecosystems. Nebkhas are assumed to increase habitat heterogeneity, but what is the importance of the nebkha host species relative to other nebkha characteristics in determining the associated plant assemblages? Are some host species more effective in creating diversity hotspots, or does a single species- area relationship apply to all nebkhas, regardless of host species? Can the influence of the host be ascribed to its indirect effects on abiotic attributes of the nebkha complex? Methods and location: We investigated plant species richness and composition on nebkhas around six psammophytic species on Mediterranean coastal dunes of the Sinai Peninsula. Results: Plant species richness was significantly related to nebkha size by the single power function according to the general prediction of island biogeography theory, but this relationship was modified-though to a limited degree-by nebkha host species identity. Canonical Correspondence Analysis revealed that nebkha host species identity and nebkha environmental and non-environmental factors significantly explained species composition on the nebkhas, but host species identity did so to a greater extent. The latter might re. ect differences in seed trapping ability or free space for colonization between host species. Conclusion: Differences in community composition and richness among nebkhas formed by different host species represent a key factor in the maintenance of plant diversity on arid coastal dunes.	2007	18	10.1111/j.1654-1103.2007.tb02577.x
Stoeck, T; Bruemmer, F; Foissner, W	Evidence for local ciliate endemism in an Alpine Anoxic lake	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Despite its long history, biogeography has received relatively little attention within the field of microbial ecology. Consequently, a fierce debate rages whether protists inhabit restricted geographic areas (endemism hypothesis) or are globally dispersed (ubiquitous dispersal hypothesis). The data presented in this article support the endemism hypothesis. We succeeded in isolating an oligohymenophorean ciliate from a microbial mat in a meromictic anoxic alpine lake (Alatsee) in Germany. The ciliary pattern and the morphometry of this isolate are remarkably similar to Urocentrum turbo (Mueller, 1786) Nitzsch, 1827. However, the organism does not possess trichocysts, a conspicuous and characteristic feature of U. turbo. Instead, the U. turbo-like isolate from lake Alatsee displays merely trichocyst anlagen (ghosts) in the cytoplasm that are only visible after protargol impregnation and which become never attached to the cells cortex. Despite the distinctness of this difference, such a morphospecies has not been described from any other environment. Thus, we suggest that the U. turbo-like isolate from lake Alatsee is a local endemic ecotype, although the sequences of the 18S rRNA, ITS1, 5.8S rRNA, and ITS2 genes are nearly identical to those of U. turbo (Mueller, 1786) Nitzsch, 1827. This indicates that neither 18S rDNA nor ITS1, ITS2, and 5.8S rDNA sequences are reliable means to conclusively resolve different morphospecies or ecotypes of ciliates. As a consequence, we argue that protist species richness can only be reliably accounted for by considering both molecular and morphological data.	2007	54	10.1007/s00248-007-9213-6
Bass, D; Richards, TA; Matthai, L; Marsh, V; Cavalier-Smith, T	DNA evidence for global dispersal and probable endemicity of protozoa	BMC EVOLUTIONARY BIOLOGY	Background: It is much debated whether microbes are easily dispersed globally or whether they, like many macro-organisms, have historical biogeographies. The ubiquitous dispersal hypothesis states that microbes are so numerous and so easily dispersed worldwide that all should be globally distributed and found wherever growing conditions suit them. This has been broadly upheld for protists (microbial eukaryotes) by most morphological and some molecular analyses. However, morphology and most previously used evolutionary markers evolve too slowly to test this important hypothesis adequately. Results: Here we use a fast-evolving marker (ITS1 rDNA) to map global diversity and distribution of three different clades of cercomonad Protozoa (Eocercomonas and Paracercomonas: phylum Cercozoa) by sequencing multiple environmental gene libraries constructed from 47-80 globally-dispersed samples per group. Even with this enhanced resolution, identical ITS sequences (ITStypes) were retrieved from widely separated sites and on all continents for several genotypes, implying relatively rapid global dispersal. Some identical ITS-types were even recovered from both marine and non-marine samples, habitats that generally harbour significantly different protist communities. Conversely, other ITS-types had either patchy or restricted distributions. Conclusion: Our results strongly suggest that geographic dispersal in macro-organisms and microbes is not fundamentally different: some taxa show restricted and/or patchy distributions while others are clearly cosmopolitan. These results are concordant with the moderate endemicity model of microbial biogeography. Rare or continentally endemic microbes may be ecologically significant and potentially of conservational concern. We also demonstrate that strains with identical 18S but different ITS1 rDNA sequences can differ significantly in terms of morphological and important physiological characteristics, providing strong additional support for global protist biodiversity being significantly higher than previously thought.	2007	7	10.1186/1471-2148-7-162
Langenheder, S; Ragnarsson, H	The role of environmental and spatial factors for the composition of aquatic bacterial communities	ECOLOGY	This study investigates the importance of local vs. spatial factors on bacterial community composition of 35 rock pools at the Baltic Sea coast. The pools were located in five distinct spatial clusters over a total scale of < 500 m and differed widely in terms of water chemistry. To determine the fractions of the variance in bacterial community composition (BCC) between rock pools that are explained by local environmental vs. spatial factors, a variance partitioning procedure using partial canonical correspondence analysis was performed. Three environmental variables (salinity, chlorophyll a concentration, and water color) had a significant effect on BCC, irrespective of the spatial location of the pools. Vice versa, there was a significant effect of spatial factors on BCC irrespective of any of the environmental factors included in this study. Hence, the patchy spatial distribution of the pools was partly reflected in the composition of the bacterial communities in the pools, which might be caused by congruent colonization events of adjacent pools, such as simultaneous seaspray inputs or direct exchange of bacteria via connecting rivulets. This study shows that the composition of planktonic bacteria can show provincialism at small spatial scales, which is likely to be caused by environmental conditions as well as historical events.	2007	88	10.1890/06-2098.1
Fierer, N; Morse, JL; Berthrong, ST; Bernhardt, ES; Jackson, RB	Environmental controls on the landscape-scale biogeography of stream bacterial communities	ECOLOGY	We determined the biogeographical distributions of stream bacteria and the biogeochemical factors that best explained heterogeneity for 23 locations within the Hubbard Brook watershed, a 3000-ha forested watershed in New Hampshire, USA. Our goal was to assess the factor, or set of factors, responsible for generating the biogeographical patterns exhibited by microorganisms at the landscape scale. We used DNA fingerprinting to characterize bacteria inhabiting fine benthic organic matter (FBOM) because of their important influence on stream nutrient dynamics. Across the watershed, streams of similar pH had similar FBOM bacterial communities. Streamwater pH was the single variable most strongly correlated with the relative distance between communities (Spearmans p = 0.66, P < 0.00 1) although there were other contributing factors, including the quality of the fine benthic organic matter and the amount of dissolved organic carbon and nitrogen in the stream water (P < 0.05 for each). There was no evidence of an effect of geographic distance on bacterial community composition, suggesting that dispersal limitation has little influence on the observed biogeographical patterns in streams across this landscape. Cloning and sequencing of small-subunit rRNA genes confirmed the DNA fingerprinting results and revealed strong shifts among bacterial groups along the pH gradient. With an increase in streamwater pH, the abundance of acidobacteria in the FBOM bacterial community decreased (from 71% to 38%), and the abundance of proteobacteria increased (from 11% to 47%). Together these results suggest that microorganisms, like macro -organisms, do exhibit biogeographical patterns at the landscape scale and that these patterns may be predictable based on biogeochemical factors.	2007	88	10.1890/06-1746.1
Zhang, R; Liu, BZ; Lau, SCK; Ki, JS; Qian, PY	Particle-attached and free-living bacterial communities in a contrasting marine environment: Victoria Harbor, Hong Kong	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Diversity of particle-attached and free-living marine bacteria in Victoria Harbor, Hong Kong, and its adjacent coastal and estuarial environments was investigated using DNA fingerprinting and clone library analysis. Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) analysis of 16S rRNA genes showed that bacterial communities in three stations of Victoria Harbor were similar, but differed from those in adjacent coastal and estuarine stations. Particle-attached and free-living bacterial community composition differed in the Victoria Harbor area. DNA sequencing of 28 bands from DGGE gel showed Alphaproteobacteria was the most abundant group, followed by the Bacteroidetes, and other Proteobacteria. Bacterial species richness (number of DGGE bands) differed among stations and populations (particle-attached and free-living; bottom and surface). BIOENV analysis indicated that the concentrations of suspended solids were the major contributing parameter for the spatial variation of total bacterial community structure. Samples from representative stations were selected for clone library (548 clones) construction and their phylogenetic distributions were similar to those of sequences from DGGE. Approximately 80% of clones were affiliated to Proteobacteria, Bacteroidetes and Cyanobacteria. The possible influences of dynamic pollution and hydrological conditions in the Victoria Harbor area on the particle-attached and free-living bacterial community structures were discussed.	2007	61	10.1111/j.1574-6941.2007.00353.x
Jentsch, A; Kreyling, J; Beierkuhnlein, C	A new generation of climate-change experiments: events, not trends	FRONTIERS IN ECOLOGY AND THE ENVIRONMENT	Intensification of weather extremes is currently emerging as one of the most important facets of climate change. Research on extreme events (event-focused in contrast to trend-focused) has increased in recent years and, in 2004, accounted for one-fifth of the experimental climate-change studies published. Numerous examples, ranging from microbiology and soil science to biogeography, demonstrate how extreme weather events can accelerate shifts in species composition and distribution, thereby facilitating changes in ecosystem functioning. However, assessing the importance of extreme events for ecological processes poses a major challenge because of the very nature of such events: their effects are out of proportion to their short duration. We propose that extreme events can be characterized by statistical extremity, timing, and abruptness relative to the life cycles of the organisms affected. To test system response to changing magnitude and frequency of weather events, controlled experiments are useful tools. These experiments provide essential insights for science and for societies that must develop coping strategies for such events. Here, we discuss future research needs for climate-change experiments in ecology. For illustration, we describe an experimental plan showing how to meet the challenge posed by changes in the frequency or magnitude of extreme events.	2007	5	10.1890/1540-9295(2007)5[365:ANGOCE]2.0.CO;2
Vyverman, W; Verleyen, E; Sabbe, K; Vanhoutte, K; Sterken, M; Hodgson, DA; Mann, DG; Juggins, S; Van de Vijver, B; Jones, V; Flower, R; Roberts, D; Chepurnov, VA; Kilroy, C; Vanormelingen, P; De Wever, A	Historical processes constrain patterns in global diatom diversity	ECOLOGY	There is a long-standing belief that microbial organisms have unlimited dispersal capabilities, are therefore ubiquitous, and show weak or absent latitudinal diversity gradients. In contrast, using a global freshwater diatom data set, we show that latitudinal gradients in local and regional genus richness are present and highly asymmetric between both hemispheres. Patterns in regional richness are explained by the degree of isolation of lake districts, while the number of locally coexisting diatom genera is highly constrained by the size of the regional diatom pool, habitat availability, and the connectivity between habitats within lake districts. At regional to global scales, historical factors explain significantly more of the observed geographic patterns in genus richness than do contemporary environmental conditions. Together, these results stress the importance of dispersal and migration in structuring diatom communities at regional to global scales. Our results are consistent with predictions from the theory of island biogeography and metacommunity concepts and likely underlie the strong provinciality and endemism observed in the relatively isolated diatom floras in the Southern Hemisphere.	2007	88	10.1890/06-1564.1
Roesch, LF; Fulthorpe, RR; Riva, A; Casella, G; Hadwin, AKM; Kent, AD; Daroub, SH; Camargo, FAO; Farmerie, WG; Triplett, EW	Pyrosequencing enumerates and contrasts soil microbial diversity	ISME JOURNAL	Estimates of the number of species of bacteria per gram of soil vary between 2000 and 8.3 million (Gans et al., 2005; Schloss and Handelsman, 2006). The highest estimate suggests that the number may be so large as to be impractical to test by amplification and sequencing of the highly conserved 16S rRNA gene from soil DNA (Gans et al., 2005). Here we present the use of high throughput DNA pyrosequencing and statistical inference to assess bacterial diversity in four soils across a large transect of the western hemisphere. The number of bacterial 16S rRNA sequences obtained from each site varied from 26 140 to 53 533. The most abundant bacterial groups in all four soils were the Bacteroidetes, Betaproteobacteria and Alphaproteobacteria. Using three estimators of diversity, the maximum number of unique sequences (operational taxonomic units roughly corresponding to the species level) never exceeded 52 000 in these soils at the lowest level of dissimilarity. Furthermore, the bacterial diversity of the forest soil was phylum rich compared to the agricultural soils, which are species rich but phylum poor. The forest site also showed far less diversity of the Archaea with only 0.009% of all sequences from that site being from this group as opposed to 4%-12% of the sequences from the three agricultural sites. This work is the most comprehensive examination to date of bacterial diversity in soil and suggests that agricultural management of soil may significantly influence the diversity of bacteria and archaea.	2007	1	10.1038/ismej.2007.53
Zinger, L; Gury, J; Giraud, F; Krivobok, S; Gielly, L; Taberlet, P; Geremia, RA	Improvements of polymerase chain reaction and capillary electrophoresis single-strand conformation polymorphism methods in microbial ecology: Toward a high-throughput method for microbial diversity studies in soil	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	The molecular signature of bacteria from soil ecosystems is an important tool for studying microbial ecology and biogeography. However, a high-throughput technology is needed for such studies. In this article, we tested the suitability of available methods ranging from soil DNA extraction to capillary electrophoresis single-strand conformation polymorphism (CE-SSCP) for high-throughput studies. Our results showed that the extraction method does not dramatically influence CE-SSCP profiles, and that DNA extraction of a 0.25 g soil sample is sufficient to observe overall bacterial diversity in soil matrices. The V3 region of the 16S rRNA gene was amplified by PCR, and the extension time was found to be critical. We have also found that proofreading DNA polymerases generate a better signal in CE-SSCP profiles. Experiments performed with different soil matrices revealed the repeatability, efficiency, and consistency of CE-SSCP. Studies on PCR and CE-SSCP using single-species genomic DNA as a matrix showed that several ribotypes may migrate at the same position, and also that single species can produce double peaks. Thus, the extrapolation between number of peaks and number of species remains difficult. Additionally, peak detection is limited by the analysis software. We conclude that the presented method, including CE-SSCP and the analyzing step, is a simple and effective technique to obtain the molecular signature of a given soil sample.	2007	54	10.1007/s00248-006-9151-8
OMalley, MA	The nineteenth century roots of everything is everywhere	NATURE REVIEWS MICROBIOLOGY	The identification of geographical patterns in microbial distributions has begun to challenge purely ecological explanations of biogeography and the underlying principle of everything is everywhere: but the environment selects. How did ` everything is everywhere  arise out of nineteenth century microbiology, and from Beijerincks experimental and theoretical work in particular? What is the relationship of this principle to the plant and animal biogeography that flourished throughout this formative period of microbiologys history? Understanding Beijerincks legacy for twentieth century microbial biogeography reveals issues that are still pertinent to contemporary discussions of microbial biodiversity and biogeography.	2007	5	10.1038/nrmicro1711
Moisander, PH; Morrison, AE; Ward, BB; Jenkins, BD; Zehr, JP	Spatial-temporal variability in diazotroph assemblages in Chesapeake Bay using an oligonucleotide nifH microarray	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	The distribution of nitrogen-fixing microorganisms in the Chesapeake Bay was investigated using fingerprints from a nifH microarray comprised of 706 60-mer oligonucleotide nifH probes representing cultivated organisms and environmental clones from different nifH clusters. Diverse nifH targets, amplified from samples using degenerate nifH primers, were detected in water column and sediment samples collected in April and October, 2001-2002. Total nifH richness and diversity (Simpsons and Shannon indices) were highest at the most riverine, oligohaline North Bay station. In most samples, the highest diversity was in nifH Cluster 3, which includes many anaerobes, while Cluster 1 (alpha-, beta- gamma- Proteobacteria, Cyanobacteria) targets had the greatest microarray signal intensities. In a multidimensional scaling analysis, deep water communities from April and October were similar within each of the sampling sites, while the surface communities had more variability. Diazotroph communities in the water column in the North Bay were distinct from the Mid- and South Bay communities, and there was a gradual change in sediment diazotroph assemblages from the North to the South Bay. Diazotrophic assemblages from the majority of the water column samples from the Mid- and South Bay clustered with the sediment assemblage in Mid-Bay. Dissolved inorganic nitrogen, salinity, dissolved organic carbon and dissolved organic phosphorus had a significant relationship with the diazotrophic bacterioplankton community. Higher diversity in the freshwater end of the system may reflect variability in disturbance rates and environmental conditions such as forms and concentrations of organic matter, nutrients and oxygen.	2007	9	10.1111/j.1462-2920.2007.01304.x
Jenkins, DG; Brescacin, CR; Duxbury, CV; Elliott, JA; Evans, JA; Grablow, KR; Hillegass, M; LyonO, BN; Metzger, GA; Olandese, ML; Pepe, D; Silvers, GA; Suresch, HN; Thompson, TN; Trexler, CM; Williams, GE; Williams, NC; Williams, SE	Does size matter for dispersal distance?	GLOBAL ECOLOGY AND BIOGEOGRAPHY	Aim The aim of this study is to answer the questions: (1) do small organisms disperse farther than large, or vice versa; and (2) does the observed pattern differ for passive and active dispersers? These questions are central to several themes in biogeography (including microbial biogeography), macroecology, metacommunity ecology and conservation biology. Location The meta-analysis was conducted using published data collected worldwide. Methods We collected and analysed 795 data values in the peer-reviewed literature for direct observations of both maximal dispersal distance and mass of the dispersing organisms (e.g. seeds, not trees). Analysed taxa ranged in size from bacteria to whales. We applied macroecology analyses based on null models (using Monte Carlo randomizations) to test patterns relative to specific hypotheses. Results Collected dispersal distance and mass data spanned 9 and 21 orders of magnitude, respectively. Active dispersers dispersed significantly farther (P < 0.001) and were significantly greater in mass (P < 0.001) than passive dispersers. Overall, size matters: larger active dispersers attained greater maximum observed dispersal distances than smaller active dispersers. In contrast, passive-disperser distances were random with respect to propagule mass, but not uniformly random, in part due to sparse data available for tiny propagules. Conclusions Size is important to maximal dispersal distance for active dispersers, but not for passive dispersers. Claims that microbes disperse widely cannot be tested by current data based on direct observations of dispersal: indirect approaches will need to be applied. Distance-mass relationships should contribute to a resolution of neutral and niche-based metacommunity theories by helping scale expectations for dispersal limitation. Also, distance-mass relationships should inform analyses of latitudinal species richness and conservation biology topics such as fragmentation, umbrella species and taxonomic homogenization.	2007	16	10.1111/j.1466-8238.2007.00312.x
Bisson, IA; Marra, PP; Burtt, EH; Sikaroodi, M; Gillevet, PM	A molecular comparison of plumage and soil bacteria across biogeographic, ecological, and taxonomic scales	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	We used molecular methods to determine the microbial community of soil and avian plumage across biogeographic, ecological, and taxonomic scales. A total of 17 soil and 116 feather samples were collected from five avian species across multiple habitat types within one Neotropical and one temperate locality. Hypotheses regarding patterns of microbial composition relative to acquisition and dispersal of plumage bacteria in the ecosystem were tested by comparing microbial communities within and between soil and plumage. Samples from the plumage of American Redstarts (Setophaga ruticilla) were collected across both habitat types and geographic scales for intraspecific comparisons. The microbial diversity in avian plumage was moderately diverse and was dominated by Pseudomonas species. Despite a highly significant individual bird effect on microbial composition of the plumage, we detected significant biogeographic and type of habitat effects. Pseudomonas species were more abundant on the temperate site when all avian species were included in the analysis, and Bacillus subtilis and Xanthomonas groups were more abundant on the Neotropical site for redstarts alone. However, 16S rDNA sequence libraries were not significantly different between Jamaican and Maryland redstarts. Biogeographic and habitat effects were significant and more pronounced for soil samples indicating lower dispersal of soil microbiota. We detected a significant difference between soil and plumage microbial communities suggesting that soil plays a small role in plumage bacterial acquisition. Our results suggest bacterial communities on the plumage of birds are dynamic and may change at different stages in a birds annual cycle.	2007	54	10.1007/s00248-006-9173-2
Normand, P; Queiroux, C; Tisa, LS; Benson, DR; Rouy, Z; Cruveiller, S; Medigue, C	Exploring the genomes of Frankia	PHYSIOLOGIA PLANTARUM	The recent determination of the genome sequence of three Frankia strains has highlighted the evolutionary forces that have shaped the genetic makeup of the actinorhizal symbionts and it has opened up many avenues of research. Instances of gene duplication, gene loss and gene acquisition through lateral transfer show that the three Frankia genomes are dynamic and have evolved as a function of their host characteristics and biogeography. No convincing nod gene cluster or significant symbiotic island could be discerned. All the genes presently known to be involved in the symbiosis (nif, hup1 and hup2, shc) are found spread over the genome in at least four clusters. The results will be discussed with emphasis on understanding the mechanisms underlying the interaction and link between evolutionary forces and ecological adaptation to different biotopes.	2007	130	10.1111/j.1399-3054.2007.00918.x
Evans, KM; Wortley, AH; Mann, DG	An assessment of potential diatom barcode genes (cox1, rbcL, 18S and ITS rDNA) and their effectiveness in determining relationships in Sellaphora (Bacillariophyta)	PROTIST	Due to limited morphological differentiation, diatoms can be very difficult to identify and cryptic speciation is widespread. There is a need for a narrower species concept if contentious issues such as diatom biodiversities and biogeographies are to be resolved. We assessed the effectiveness of several genes (cox1, rbcL, 18S and ITS rDNA) to distinguish cryptic species within the model morphospecies, Sellaphora pupula agg. This is the first time that the suitability of cox1 as an identification tool for diatoms has been assessed. A range of cox1 primers was tested on Sellaphora and various outgroup taxa. Sequences were obtained for 34 isolates belonging to 22 Sellaphora taxa and three others (Pinnularia, Eunotia and Tabularia). Intraspecific divergences ranged from 0 to 5bp (= 0.8%) and interspecific levels were at least 18bp (= c. 3%). Cox1 divergence was usually much greater than rbcL divergence and always much more variable than 18S rDNA. ITS rDNA sequences were more variable than cox1, but well-known problems concerning intragenomic variability caution against its use in identification. More information and less sequencing effort mean that cox1 can be a very useful aid in diatom identification. The usefulness of cox1 for determining phylogenetic relationships among Sellaphora species was also assessed and compared to rbcL. Tree topologies were very similar, although support values were generally lower for cox1. (c) 2007 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.	2007	158	10.1016/j.protis.2007.04.001
Pearce, DA; Cockell, CS; Lindstrom, ES; Tranvik, LJ	First evidence for a bipolar distribution of dominant freshwater lake bacterioplankton	ANTARCTIC SCIENCE	As a result of the recent application of DNA based technology to the investigation of maritime Antarctic freshwater lakes, patterns have begun to emerge in the bacterioplankton communities that dominate these systems. In this study, the bacterioplankton communities of five Antarctic and five Arctic freshwater lakes were assessed and compared with existing data in the literature, to determine whether emerging patterns in Antarctic lakes also applied to Arctic systems. Such a bipolar comparison is particularly timely., given the current interest in biogeography, the global distribution of microorganisms and the controversy over the global ubiquity hypothesis. In addition, it has recently been discovered that commonly encountered bacterial sequences, often originating from uncultivated bacteria obtained on different continents, form coherent phylogenetic freshwater clusters. In this study we encountered both identical sequences and sequences with a high degree of similarity among the bacterioplankton in lake water from both poles. In addition, Arctic freshwater lakes appeared to be dominated by some of the same groups of bacterioplankton thought to be dominant in Antarctic lakes, the vast majority of which represented uncultivated groups.	2007	19	10.1017/S0954102007000326
Walker, JJ; Pace, NR	Phylogenetic composition of Rocky Mountain endolithic microbial ecosystems	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	The endolithic environment, the pore space in rocks, is a ubiquitous microbial habitat. Photosynthesis-based endolithic communities inhabit the outer few millimeters to centimeters of rocks exposed to the surface. Such endolithic ecosystems have been proposed as simple, tractable models for understanding basic principles in microbial ecology. In order to test previously conceived hypotheses about endolithic ecosystems, we studied selected endolithic communities in the Rocky Mountain region of the United States with culture-independent molecular methods. Community compositions were determined by determining rRNA gene sequence contents, and communities were compared using statistical phylogenetic methods. The results indicate that endolithic ecosystems are seeded from a select, global metacommunity and form true ecological communities that are among the simplest microbial ecosystems known. Statistical analysis showed that biogeographical characteristics that control community composition, such as rock type, are more complex than predicted. Collectively, results of this study support the idea that patterns of microbial diversity found in endolithic communities are governed by principles similar to those observed in macroecological systems.	2007	73	10.1128/AEM.02656-06
Horner-Devine, MC; Silver, JM; Leibold, MA; Bohannan, BJM; Colwell, RK; Fuhrman, JA; Green, JL; Kuske, CR; Martiny, JBH; Muyzer, G; Ovreas, L; Reysenbach, AL; Smith, VH	A comparison of taxon co-occurrence patterns for macro- and microorganisms	ECOLOGY	We examine co-occurrence patterns of microorganisms to evaluate community assembly rules. We use methods previously applied to macroorganisms, both to evaluate their applicability to microorganisms and to allow comparison of co-occurrence patterns observed in microorganisms to those found in macroorganisms. We use a null model analysis of 124 incidence matrices from microbial communities, including bacteria, archaea, fungi, and algae, and we compare these results to previously published findings from a meta-analysis of almost 100 macroorganism data sets. We show that assemblages of microorganisms demonstrate nonrandom patterns of co-occurrence that are broadly similar to those found in assemblages of macroorganisms. These results suggest that some taxon co-occurrence patterns may be general characteristics of communities of organisms from all domains of life. We also find that co-occurrence in microbial communities does not vary among taxonomic groups or habitat types. However, we find that the degree of co-occurrence does vary among studies that use different methods to survey microbial communities. Finally, we discuss the potential effects of the undersampling of microbial communities on our results, as well as processes that may contribute to nonrandom patterns of co-occurrence in both macrobial and microbial communities such as competition, habitat filtering, historical effects, and neutral processes.	2007	88	10.1890/06-0286
Crump, BC; Adams, HE; Hobbie, JE; Kling, GW	Biogeography of bacterioplankton in lakes and streams of an arctic tundra catchment	ECOLOGY	Bacterioplankton community composition was compared across 10 lakes and 14 streams within the catchment of Toolik Lake, a tundra lake in Arctic Alaska, during seven surveys conducted over three years using denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) of PCR-amplified rDNA. Bacterioplankton communities in streams draining tundra were very different than those in streams draining lakes. Communities in streams draining lakes were similar to communities in lakes. In a connected series of lakes and streams, the stream communities changed with distance from the upstream lake and with changes in water chemistry, suggesting inoculation and dilution with bacteria from soil waters or hyporheic zones. In the same system, lakes shared similar bacterioplankton communities (78% similar) that shifted gradually down the catchment. In contrast, unconnected lakes contained somewhat different communities (67% similar). We found evidence that dispersal influences bacterioplankton communities via advection and dilution (mass effects) in streams, and via inoculation and subsequent growth in lakes. The spatial pattern of bacterioplankton community composition was strongly influenced by interactions among soil water, stream, and lake environments. Our results reveal large differences in lake-specific and stream-specific bacterial community composition over restricted spatial scales (< 10 km) and suggest that geographic distance and connectivity influence the distribution of bacterioplankton communities across a landscape.	2007	88	10.1890/06-0387
Peay, KG; Bruns, TD; Kennedy, PG; Bergemann, SE; Garbelotto, M	A strong species-area relationship for eukaryotic soil microbes: island size matters for ectomycorrhizal fungi	ECOLOGY LETTERS	While the effects of habitat size and isolation have been successfully studied for macro-organisms, there is currently debate about their relative importance in explaining patterns of microbial species richness. In this study, we examine the species richness of a dominant group of eukaryotic soil microbes, ectomycorrhizal fungi, on tree islands of constant age and host composition that range in size from < 10 to > 10 000 m(2). Our results show that ectomycorrhizal species richness is significantly reduced on smaller and more isolated tree islands, and the species-area slope that we observe (0.20-0.23) is similar to average slopes reported for macro-organisms. Additionally, species occurrence patterns across tree islands and investment trends in fungal fruit bodies suggest that a trade-off between competition and dispersal could play an important role in structuring ectomycorrhizal assemblages.	2007	10	10.1111/j.1461-0248.2007.01035.x
Yutin, N; Suzuki, MT; Teeling, H; Weber, M; Venter, JC; Rusch, DB; Beja, O	Assessing diversity and biogeography of aerobic anoxygenic phototrophic bacteria in surface waters of the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans using the Global Ocean Sampling expedition metagenomes	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Aerobic anoxygenic photosynthetic bacteria (AAnP) were recently proposed to be significant contributors to global oceanic carbon and energy cycles. However, AAnP abundance, spatial distribution, diversity and potential ecological importance remain poorly understood. Here we present metagenomic data from the Global Ocean Sampling expedition indicating that AAnP diversity and abundance vary in different oceanic regions. Furthermore, we show for the first time that the composition of AAnP assemblages change between different oceanic regions, with specific bacterial assemblages adapted to open ocean or coastal areas respectively. Our results support the notion that marine AAnP populations are complex and dynamic, and compose an important fraction of bacterioplankton assemblages in certain oceanic areas.	2007	9	10.1111/j.1462-2920.2007.01265.x
Williams, M; Siveter, DJ; Popov, LE; Vannier, JMC	Biogeography and affinities of the bradoriid arthropods: Cosmopolitan microbenthos of the Cambrian seas	PALAEOGEOGRAPHY PALAEOCLIMATOLOGY PALAEOECOLOGY	This paper reviews the global biogeography and affinities of the Bradoriida, a group of Cambrian-early Ordovician arthropods. Bradoriida appear in the fossil record during the early Cambrian, just prior to the earliest trilobite faunas. Seven families may form a natural (monophyletic) group of Bradoriida sensu stricto, comprising Cambriidae, Kumningellidae, Comptalutidae, Bradoriidae, Hipponicharionidae, Beyrichonidae and Svealutidae. Amongst the Bradoriida sensu Into, some forms that lie outside these families have carapace designs that suggest an ostracod affinity, particularly Altajanella and Vojbokalina. Bradoriida formed a major element of the Cambrian evolutionary fauna and are components of the Chengjiang, Burgess Shale, and Buen Formation Lagerstatten. Bradoriida achieved global distribution from the Atdabanian (early Cambrian). Their diversity peaked during the early and middle Cambrian, with highest diversity at the species and genus level amongst the palaeo-tropical faunas of the South China (17 genera) and east Gondwana palaeocontinental regions (23 genera). By contrast Laurentian faunas were of much lower diversity (10 genera for the whole Cambrian). Bradoriid diversity declined rapidly from the latest middle Cambrian, a trend that may be related to the major extinction of trilobites at the base of the late Cambrian. The youngest Bradoriida comprise a few, rare Ordovician forms. Bradoriids appear to have occupied well-oxygenated marine shelf facies. The biogeographical patterns of early and middle Cambrian Bradoriida suggest climatic control on their distribution (temperate and tropical faunas), together with palaeogeographical constraints that also reflect trilobite provinciality. Kunmingellids and comptalutids were restricted to palaeo-tropical/subtropical sites, but migrated between South China, Siberia and eastern Gondwana palaeocontinents. They are absent from the mid- and high latitude faunas of the western Gondwana, Avalonia and Baltica palaeocontinental areas that were dominated by hipponicharionids, beyrichonids and Bradoriidae. The Laurentia palaeocontinent was isolated from the main zones of bradoriid diversity, but its faunas include a number of early and middle Cambrian Bradoriidac (Indota, Bradoria, Walcottella), and the region was colonised by cosmopolitan cambriids during the early Cambrian and by supposed pelagic svealutids (Liangshanella and Anabarochilina) during the middle Cambrian. The genera Walcottella, Dielymella and Bullaluta were endemic to Laurentia. One species of Anabarochilina that possibly dwelt near the sea-surface achieved an equatorial to high southern latitude (70 degrees S) distribution during the late middle Cambrian (Lejopyge laevigata Biozone), perhaps reflecting a reduced latitudinal temperature gradient for near surface ocean waters. (C) 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2007	248	10.1016/j.palaeo.2006.12.004
Wawrik, B; Kudiev, D; Abdivasievna, UA; Kukor, JJ; Zystra, GJ; Kerkhof, L	Biogeography of actinomycete communities and type II polyketide synthase genes in soils collected in New Jersey and Central Asia	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Soil microbial communities are believed to be comprised of thousands of different bacterial species. One prevailing idea is that everything is everywhere, and the environment selects, implying that all types of bacteria are present in all environments where their growth requirements are met. We tested this hypothesis using actinomycete communities and type II polyketide synthase (PKS) genes found in soils collected from New Jersey and Uzbekistan (n = 91). Terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis using actinomycete 16S rRNA and type II PKS genes was employed to determine community profiles. The terminal fragment frequencies in soil samples had a lognormal distribution, indicating that the majority of actinomycete phylotypes and PKS pathways are present infrequently in the environment. Less than 1% of peaks were detected in more than 50% of samples, and as many as 18% of the fragments were unique and detected in only one sample. Actinomycete 16S rRNA fingerprints clustered by country of origin, indicating that unique populations are present in North America and Central Asia. Sequence analysis of type II PKS gene fragments cloned from Uzbek soil revealed 35 novel sequence clades whose levels of identity to genes in the GenBank database ranged from 68 to 92%. The data indicate that actinomycetes are patchily distributed but that distinct populations are present in North American and Central Asia. These results have implications for microbial bioprospecting and indicate that the cosmopolitan actinomycete species and PKS pathways may account for only a small proportion of the total diversity in soil.	2007	73	10.1128/AEM.02611-06
Maraun, M; Schatz, H; Scheu, S	Awesome or ordinary? Global diversity patterns of oribatid mites	ECOGRAPHY	Diversity of most above-ground organisms increases with decreasing latitude, but the biogeographical and macroecological diversity patterns of below-ground animals have been poorly studied. We investigated the latitudinal diversity gradient in a primarily below-ground living soil taxon, oribatid mites. Furthermore, oribatid mite species richness from islands and mainlainds was tested for correlation with the size of the respective area (island or mainland) to evaluate if their species-area relationships are similar to those of above-ground taxa. The results suggest that for oribatid mites 1) diversity increases from the boreal to the warm temperate region but not further to the tropics, and 2) species-area relationships for islands and mainlands are similar to those of above-ground taxa, but this is mainly caused by very small islands, such as Cocos islands, and very large islands, such as Madagascar. When these islands are excluded the species-area relationship strongly differs from those of typical islands. The results support the view that below-ground animal taxa are generalists that inhabit wide niches. Most small islands have relatively rich oribatid mite faunas, supporting the observation that a large number of species can coexist in a small area (high alpha-diversity).	2007	30	10.1111/j.2007.0906-7590.04994.x
Hewson, I; Jacobson-Meyers, ME; Fuhrman, JA	Diversity and biogeography of bacterial assemblages in surface sediments across the San Pedro Basin, Southern California Borderlands	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Sediment bacteria play important roles in the biogeochemistry of ocean sediments; however, factors influencing assemblage composition have not been extensively studied. We examined extractable sediment bacterial abundance, the composition of bacterial assemblages using a high-throughput molecular fingerprinting approach, and several sediment biogeochemical parameters (organic matter content and alkaline phosphatase activity), along a 35 km transect from Point Fermin, Southern California, to Santa Catalina Island, across the approximately 900-m-deep San Pedro Basin. Automated rRNA intergenic spacer analysis (ARISA) demonstrated that in two spatially isolated shallow (approximately < 60 m, on opposite sides of the channel) sediment environments, assemblages were more similar to each other than to deeper communities. Distinct communities existed in deeper and shallower sediments, and stations within the deep basin over 2 km apart contained remarkably similar assemblage fingerprints. The relative contribution to total amplified DNA fluorescence of operational taxonomic units (OTUs) was significantly correlated to that of other OTUs in few comparisons (2.7% of total), i.e. few bacterial types were found together or apart consistently. The relative proportions within assemblages of only a few OTU were significantly correlated to measured physicochemical parameters (organic matter content and wet/dry weight ratio of sediments) or enzyme (alkaline phosphatase) activities. A low percentage of shared OTU between shallow and deep sediments, and the presence of similar, but spatially isolated assemblages suggests that bacterial OTU may be widely dispersed over scales of a few kilometres, but that environmental conditions select for particular assemblages.	2007	9	10.1111/j.1462-2920.2006.01214.x
Kilroy, C; Biggs, BJF; Vyverman, W	Rules for macroorganisms applied to microorganisms: patterns of endemism in benthic freshwater diatoms	OIKOS	Ecological theory based on the dynamic equilibrium model (DEM) suggests that maintenance of endemic taxa is most likely in stable, unproductive environments. We tested whether this hypothesis, which was developed mainly using terrestrial plant examples, held when applied to distributions of benthic freshwater diatoms in New Zealand. Given current arguments for the ubiquity of microbial organisms, with distributions determined mainly by environmental tolerances, demonstration that distinctive taxa with evidently restricted distributions conform to theory applicable to larger organisms would lend support to the opposite point of view, that barriers to dispersal do exist. We examined diatom communities from over 320 sites representing the entire spectrum of freshwater habitats in New Zealand and assessed relative abundances of the main taxa present. Each taxon distinguished was assigned to one of five distribution categories ranging from cosmopolitan to endemic. We derived indices of disturbance and productivity for each site using the River Environment Classification (REC), a GIS-based classification system developed for New Zealand rivers. Diatom taxa assigned to endemic or distinctive potential endemic categories were significantly more abundant in low disturbance sites but occurred across a range of productivities. However, bogs and tarns, both of which fell mainly into low disturbance and productivity classes, were distinctive in supporting relatively high proportions of endemic and potential endemic diatoms. Thus our findings in general conformed to the patterns predicted by the DEM, thereby supporting the role of dispersal limitation in diatoms. At the same time, conformity with the DEM helps to explain the continued coexistence in New Zealand freshwaters of many common and apparently cosmopolitan taxa with endemic diatoms, since the DEM explanation for maintenance of endemism does not rely on geographic isolation of species.	2007	116	10.1111/j.2007.0030-1299.15447.x
Follows, MJ; Dutkiewicz, S; Grant, S; Chisholm, SW	Emergent biogeography of microbial communities in a model ocean	SCIENCE	A marine ecosystem model seeded with many phytoplankton types, whose physiological traits were randomly assigned from ranges defined by field and laboratory data, generated an emergent community structure and biogeography consistent with observed global phytoplankton distributions. The modeled organisms included types analogous to the marine cyanobacterium Prochlorococcus. Their emergent global distributions and physiological properties simultaneously correspond to observations. This flexible representation of community structure can be used to explore relations between ecosystems, biogeochemical cycles, and climate change.	2007	315	10.1126/science.1138544
Kuehne, HA; Murphy, HA; Francis, CA; Sniegowski, PD	Allopatric divergence, secondary contact and genetic isolation in wild yeast populations	CURRENT BIOLOGY	In plants and animals, new biological species clearly have arisen as a byproduct of genetic divergence in allopatry. However, our understanding of the processes that generate new microbial species remains limited [1] despite the large contribution of microbes to the worlds biodiversity. A recent hypothesis claims that microbes lack biogeographical divergence because their population sizes are large and their migration rates are presumably high [2, 3]. In recapitulating the classic microbial-ecology dictum that everything is everywhere, and the environment selects [4, 5], this hypothesis casts doubt on whether geographic divergence promotes speciation in microbes. To date, its predictions have been tested primarily with data from eubacteria and archaebacteria [6-8]. However, this hypothesiss most important implication is in sexual eukaryotic microbes, where migration and genetic admixture are specifically predicted to inhibit allopatric divergence and speciation [9]. Here, we use nuclear-sequence data from globally distributed natural populations of the yeast Saccharomyces paradoxus to investigate the role of geography in generating diversity in sexual eukaryotic microbes. We show that these populations have undergone allopatric divergence and then secondary contact without genetic admixture. Our data thus support the occurrence of evolutionary processes necessary for allopatric speciation in sexual microbes.	2007	17	10.1016/j.cub.2006.12.047
Martir, MC; Tlusty, B; van Berkum, P; Graham, PH	The genetic diversity of rhizobia associated with Dalea purpurea Vent. in fragmented grasslands of west-central Minnesota	CANADIAN JOURNAL OF MICROBIOLOGY	The increase in human population and the spread of agriculture over the past 150 years have transformed the landscape in west-central Minnesota into a mosaic of agricultural fields and urban land, leaving only remnants of the once dominant prairie ecosystem. Limited natural habitat in this fragmented landscape threatens the diversity and abundance of native legumes and could impact the size and function of associated belowground microbial populations. In this study, BOXA1R PCR and 16S rRNA gene sequence analyses were used to assess the genetic diversity of rhizobia associated with Dalea purpurea (Vent.) in nine prairie remnants ranging in size from 0.04 to 3.5 ha. The variation in soil properties was also determined. While 53 different genotypes of rhizobia were identified, four of these accounted for 84% of the 1029 rhizobia characterized using BOXA1R PCR. Representatives from three of the four dominant genotypes had a 16S rRNA gene sequence similar to that of Rhizobium gallicum, with two of these genotypes recovered at all sites. The fourth genotype was similar to that of Rhizobium etli and occurred with frequency at only two sites. Rhizobium genotype richness and site area were positively correlated. The implications of these results are discussed.	2007	53	10.1139/W06-137
Ramette, A; Tiedje, JM	Multiscale responses of microbial life to spatial distance and environmental heterogeneity in a patchy ecosystem	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	Spatial distance (SD) and environmental heterogeneity (EH) are currently thought to represent major factors shaping genetic variation and population abundance, but their relative importance is still poorly understood. Because EH varies at multiple spatial scales, so too are microbial variables expected to vary. The determination of SD x EH interactions at multiple scales is, however, not a trivial exercise, especially when one examines their effects on microbial abundance and genomic similarities. Here we assessed those interactions at all scales perceptible in a patchy environment composed of known plant species and of heterogeneous soil physical and chemical parameters. For free-living, soil-borne Burkholderia ambifaria, genomic similarities responded to most of the spatial scales that the experimental sampling scheme could reveal, despite limited dispersal of the individuals. Species abundance and community composition were, however, responding to much smaller scales more consistent with local responses to EH. Our results suggest that whole-genome similarities may reflect the simultaneous effects of both SD and EH in microbial populations, but the pure effects of each factor only contributed to < 2% of the total genetic variation. The large amount of unexplained variation that remains after considering most environmental, spatial, and biological interactions is then posited to be the result of noise introduced by unmeasured environmental and spatial variability, sampling effects, and neutral ecological drift.	2007	104	10.1073/pnas.0610671104
Brown, MV; Donachie, SP	Evidence for tropical endemicity in the Deltaproteobacteria Marine Group B/SAR324 bacterioplankton clade	AQUATIC MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	The fine-scale phylogeny of the deeply branching Deltaproteobacteria Marine Group B/SAR324 (MGB/SAR324) bacterioplankton clade was analyzed using partial 16S rRNA gene sequence and internal transcribed spacer (ITS) sequences. Both sets of analyses revealed considerable sequence variation, which, along with bootstrap calculations, strongly support the discrimination of 3 species level clusters (i.e. displaying < 98% within-cluster and > 97% between-cluster 16S rRNA gene sequence identity) within this clade, which are here designated as MGB/SAR324 clade groups I and II and the MGB/SAR276 clade. The biogeographical ranges of these 3 clades were analyzed using newly acquired 16S and ITS sequences from Stn ALOHA (22.45 degrees N, 158 degrees W), along with sequences available in the public domain. MGB/SAR324 clade group I and the MBG/SAR276 clade display a clearly restricted distribution, occurring only in tropical and subtropical waters at depths < 250 m. These groups represent the first reported species- and genus-level phylotypes displaying a tropical-only global distribution. MGB/SAR324 clade group II, which has been previously described as ubiquitous, occurs across the latitudinal gradient, but is generally restricted to deep, colder waters in the lower latitudes. Enzyme sequences associated at least with MGB/SAR324 clade group II appear to indicate a role for this group in dissolved organic phosphate cycling.	2007	46	10.3354/ame046107
Cockell, CS; Brack, A; Wynn-Williams, DD; Baglioni, P; Brandstatter, F; Demets, R; Edwards, HGM; Gronstal, AL; Kurat, G; Lee, P; Osinski, GR; Pearce, DA; Pillinger, JM; Roten, CA; Sancisi-Frey, S	Interplanetary transfer of photosynthesis: An experimental demonstration of a selective dispersal filter in planetary island biogeography	ASTROBIOLOGY	We launched a cryptoendolithic habitat, made of a gneissic impactite inoculated with Chroococcidiopsis sp., into Earth orbit. After orbiting the Earth for 16 days, the rock entered the Earths atmosphere and was recovered in Kazakhstan. The heat of entry ablated and heated the rock to a temperature well above the. upper temperature limit for life to below the depth at which light levels are insufficient for photosynthetic organisms (similar to 5 mm), thus killing all of its photosynthetic inhabitants. This experiment shows that atmospheric transit acts as a strong biogeographical dispersal filter to the interplanetary transfer of photosynthesis. Following atmospheric entry we found that a transparent, glassy fusion crust had formed on the outside of the rock. Re-inoculated Chroococcidiopsis grew preferentially under the fusion crust in the relatively unaltered gneiss beneath. Organisms under the fusion grew approximately twice as fast as the organisms on the control rock. Thus, the biologically destructive effects of atmospheric transit can generate entirely novel and improved endolithic habitats for organisms on the destination planetary body that survive the dispersal filter. The experiment advances our understanding of how island biogeography works on the interplanetary scale.	2007	7	10.1089/ast.2006.0038
Petz, W; Valbonesi, A; Schiftner, U; Quesada, A; Ellis-Evans, JC	Ciliate biogeography in Antarctic and Arctic freshwater ecosystems: endemism or global distribution of species?	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Ciliate diversity was investigated in situ in freshwater ecosystems of the maritime (South Shetland Islands, mainly Livingston Island, 63 degrees S) and continental Antarctic (Victoria Land, 75 degrees S), and the High Arctic (Svalbard, 79 degrees N). In total, 334 species from 117 genera were identified in both polar regions, i.e. 210 spp. (98 genera) in the Arctic, 120 spp. (73 genera) in the maritime and 59 spp. (41 genera) in the continental Antarctic. Forty-four species (13% of all species) were common to both Arctic and Antarctic freshwater bodies and 19 spp. to both Antarctic areas (12% of all species). Many taxa are cosmopolitans but some, e.g. Stentor and Metopus spp., are not, and over 20% of the taxa found in any one of the three areas are new to science. Cluster analysis revealed that species similarity between different biotopes (soil, moss) within a study area was higher than between similar biotopes in different regions. Distinct differences in the species composition of freshwater and terrestrial communities indicate that most limnetic ciliates are not ubiquitously distributed. These observations and the low congruence in species composition between both polar areas, within Antarctica and between high- and temperate-latitude water bodies, respectively, suggest that long-distance dispersal of limnetic ciliates is restricted and that some species have a limited geographical distribution.	2007	59	10.1111/j.1574-6941.2006.00259.x
Nagai, S; Lian, C; Yamaguchi, S; Hamaguchi, M; Matsuyama, Y; Itakura, S; Shimada, H; Kaga, S; Yamauchi, H; Sonda, Y; Nishikawa, T; Kim, CH; Hogetsu, T	Microsatellite markers reveal population genetic structure of the toxic dinoflagellate Alexandrium tamarense (Dinophyceae) in Japanese coastal waters	JOURNAL OF PHYCOLOGY	This is the first report to explore the fine-scale diversity, population genetic structure, and biogeography of a typical planktonic microbe in Japanese and Korean coastal waters and also to try to detect the impact of natural and human-assisted dispersals on the genetic structure and gene flow in a toxic dinoflagellate species. Here we present the genetic analysis of Alexandrium tamarense (Lebour) Balech populations from 10 sites along the Japanese and Korean coasts. We used nine microsatellite loci, which varied widely in number of alleles and gene diversity across populations. The analysis revealed that Neis genetic distance correlated significantly with geographic distance in pair-wise comparisons, and that there was genetic differentiation in about half of 45 pair-wise populations. These results clearly indicate genetic isolation among populations according to geographic distance and restricted gene flow via natural dispersal through tidal currents among the populations. On the other hand, high P-values in Fishers combined test were detected in five pair-wise populations, suggesting similar genetic structure and a close genetic relationship between the populations. These findings suggest that the genetic structure of Japanese A. tamarense populations has been disturbed, possibly by human-assisted dispersal, which has resulted in gene flow between geographically separated populations.	2007	43	10.1111/j.1529-8817.2006.00304.x
Lovejoy, C; Vincent, WF; Bonilla, S; Roy, S; Martineau, MJ; Terrado, R; Potvin, M; Massana, R; Pedros-Alio, C	Distribution, phylogeny, and growth of cold-adapted picoprasinophytes in arctic seas	JOURNAL OF PHYCOLOGY	Our pigment analyses from a year-long study in the coastal Beaufort Sea in the western Canadian Arctic showed the continuous prevalence of eukaryotic picoplankton in the green algal class Prasinophyceae. Microscopic analyses revealed that the most abundant photosynthetic cell types were Micromonas-like picoprasinophytes that persisted throughout winter darkness and then maintained steady exponential growth from late winter to early summer. A Micromonas (CCMP2099) isolated from an Arctic polynya (North Water Polynya between Ellesmere Island and Greenland), an ice-free section, grew optimally at 6 degrees C-8 degrees C, with light saturation at or below 10 mu mol photons.m(-2).s(-1) at 0 degrees C. The 18S rDNA analyses of this isolate and environmental DNA clone libraries from diverse sites across the Arctic Basin indicate that this single psychrophilic Micromonas ecotype has a pan-Arctic distribution. The 18S rDNA from two other picoprasinophyte genera was also found in our pan-Arctic clone libraries: Bathycoccus and Mantoniella. The Arctic Micromonas differed from genotypes elsewhere in the World Ocean, implying that the Arctic Basin is a marine microbial province containing endemic species, consistent with the biogeography of its macroorganisms. The prevalence of obligate low-temperature, shade-adapted species in the phytoplankton indicates that the lower food web of the Arctic Ocean is vulnerable to ongoing climate change in the region.	2007	43	10.1111/j.1529-8817.2006.00310.x
Ramette, A; Tiedje, JM	Biogeography: An emerging cornerstone for understanding prokaryotic diversity, ecology, and evolution	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	New questions about microbial ecology and diversity combined with significant improvement in the resolving power of molecular tools have helped the reemergence of the field of prokaryotic biogeography. Here, we show that biogeography may constitute a cornerstone approach to study diversity patterns at different taxonomic levels in the prokaryotic world. Fundamental processes leading to the formation of biogeographic patterns are examined in an evolutionary and ecological context. Based on different evolutionary scenarios, biogeographic patterns are thus posited to consist of dramatic range expansion or regression events that would be the results of evolutionary and ecological forces at play at the genotype level. The deterministic or random nature of those underlying processes is, however, questioned in light of recent surveys. Such scenarios led us to predict the existence of particular genes whose presence or polymorphism would be associated with cosmopolitan taxa. Furthermore, several conceptual and methodological pitfalls that could hamper future developments of the field are identified, and future approaches and new lines of investigation are suggested.	2007	53	10.1007/s00248-005-5010-2
Manefield, M; Whiteley, A; Curtis, T; Watanabe, K	Influence of sustainability and immigration in assembling bacterial populations of known size and function	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	The rational assembly of microbial communities to perform desired functions would be of great practical benefit to society. Broadly speaking, there are two major theoretical foundations for microbial community assembly: one based on island biogeography theory and another based on niche theory. In this study, we compared a parameter from each theory (immigration rate and sustainability, respectively) to ascertain which was more influential in establishing a functional bacterial population in phenol degrading activated sludge over a 30-day period. Two bacterial strains originally isolated from activated sludge, but differing in their ability to sustain a population in this environment, were repeatedly added to activated sludge reactors at different doses. The resulting size of each population was monitored by competitive polymerase chain reaction. Large, unexpected, yet reproducible fluctuations in population sizes were observed. Irrespective of this, difference in the ability to sustain a population in this environment, overshadowed the influence of 100-fold differences in immigration rate.	2007	53	10.1007/s00248-006-9167-0
Pommier, T; Canback, B; Riemann, L; Bostrom, KH; Simu, K; Lundberg, P; Tunlid, A; Hagstrom, A	Global patterns of diversity and community structure in marine bacterioplankton	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	Because of their small size, great abundance and easy dispersal, it is often assumed that marine planktonic microorganisms have a ubiquitous distribution that prevents any structured assembly into local communities. To challenge this view, marine bacterioplankton communities from coastal waters at nine locations distributed world-wide were examined through the use of comprehensive clone libraries of 16S ribosomal RNA genes, used as operational taxonomic units (OTU). Our survey and analyses show that there were marked differences in the composition and richness of OTUs between locations. Remarkably, the global marine bacterioplankton community showed a high degree of endemism, and conversely included few cosmopolitan OTUs. Our data were consistent with a latitudinal gradient of OTU richness. We observed a positive relationship between the relative OTU abundances and their range of occupation, i.e. cosmopolitans had the largest population sizes. Although OTU richness differed among locations, the distributions of the major taxonomic groups represented in the communities were analogous, and all local communities were similarly structured and dominated by a few OTUs showing variable taxonomic affiliations. The observed patterns of OTU richness indicate that similar evolutionary and ecological processes structured the communities. We conclude that marine bacterioplankton share many of the biogeographical and macroecological features of macroscopic organisms. The general processes behind those patterns are likely to be comparable across taxa and major global biomes.	2007	16	10.1111/j.1365-294X.2006.03189.x
Neustupa, J; Rezacova, M	The genus Mallomonas (Mallomonadales, Synurophyceae) in several Southeast Asian urban water bodies - the biogeographic implications	NOVA HEDWIGIA	We report the occurrence of 10 Mallomonas taxa from several urban water bodies in four Southeast Asian cities in Malaysia, Singapore and Indonesia. Apart from some cosmopolitan or pantropic species, the two presumed Asian synurophyte endemics (Mallomonas grata and Mallomonas ocellata) were found. We discuss the patterns of their geographic distribution that could contravene Finlays neutral model of ubiquitous dispersal of microbial eukaryotes for these two species.	2007	84	10.1127/0029-5035/2007/0084-0249
Cohan, F; Krizanc, D; Lu, Y	Estimating bacterial diversity from environmental DNA: A maximum likelihood approach	BIOINFORMATICS RESEARCH AND APPLICATIONS, PROCEEDINGS	The ability to measure bacterial diversity is a prerequisite for the systematic study of bacterial biogeography and ecology. In this paper we describe a method of estimating diversity from an environmental sample of DNA and apply it to data taken from samples from the Sargasso Sea. Our approach combines the coverage depth method of Venter et al. [2] and the contig spectrum approach of Angly et al. [4], but uses maximum likelihood to recover the diversity rather than using hand-fit models as in [2]. We assume four species abundance distributions, then maximize the likelihood of fitting the coverage depth at different positions of the consensus sequence provided in the Sargasso Sea sample. The resulting estimates match well with those obtained using less mathematically rigorous approaches.	2007	4463	
Normand, P; Lapierre, P; Tisa, LS; Gogarten, JP; Alloisio, N; Bagnarol, E; Bassi, CA; Berry, AM; Bickhart, DM; Choisne, N; Couloux, A; Cournoyer, B; Cruveiller, S; Daubin, V; Demange, N; Francino, MP; Goltsman, E; Huang, Y; Kopp, OR; Labarre, L; Lapidus, A; Lavire, C; Marechal, J; Martinez, M; Mastronunzio, JE; Mullin, BC; Niemann, J; Pujic, P; Rawnsley, T; Rouy, Z; Schenowitz, C; Sellstedt, A; Tavares, F; Tomkins, JP; Vallenet, D; Valverde, C; Wall, LG; Wang, Y; Medigue, C; Benson, DR	Genome characteristics of facultatively symbiotic Frankia sp strains reflect host range and host plant biogeography	GENOME RESEARCH	Soil bacteria that also form mutualistic symbioses in plants encounter two major levels of selection. One occurs during adaptation to and survival in soil, and the other occurs in concert with host plant speciation and adaptation. Actinobacteria from the genus Frankia are facultative symbionts that form N-2-fixing root nodules on diverse and globally distributed angiosperms in the actinorhizal symbioses. Three closely related clades of Frankia sp. strains are recognized; members of each clade infect a subset of plants from among eight angiosperm families. We sequenced the genomes from three strains; their sizes varied from 5.43 Mbp for a narrow host range strain (Frankia sp. strain HFPCcl3) to 7.50 Mbp for a medium host range strain (Frankia alni strain ACNl4a) to 9.04 Mbp for a broad host range strain (Frankia sp. strain EANlpec.) This size divergence is the largest yet reported for such closely related soil bacteria (97.8% - 98.9% identity of 16S rRNA genes). The extent of gene deletion, duplication, and acquisition is in concert with the biogeographic history of the symbioses and host plant speciation. Host plant isolation favored genome contraction, whereas host plant diversification favored genome expansion. The results support the idea that major genome expansions as well as reductions can occur in facultative symbiotic soil bacteria as they respond to new environments in the context of their symbioses.	2007	17	10.1101/gr.5798407
David, M; Gollasch, S; Cabrini, M; Perkovic, M; Bosnjak, D; Virgilio, D	Results from the first ballast water sampling study in the Mediterranean Sea - the Port of Koper study	MARINE POLLUTION BULLETIN	The ongoing transfer of harmful organisms by shipping, especially via ballast water transport, may result in a change of biodiversity, alteration of ecosystems, negative impacts on human health and economic loss. Species introductions which cause irreversible consequences to receiving environments and economies call for particular attention. One critical issue is a need to evaluate the quantities and processes of species introductions. Consequently ballast water was sampled on 15 ships calling at the Port of Koper, Slovenia. This was the first ballast water sampling study in the Mediterranean Sea. This paper summarises the sampling results. Samples were analysed for all types of aquatic organisms including bacteria. The results may be considered as background information for an initial risk assessment of future species introductions - an important tool for the implementation of ballast water management measures. (c) 2006 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2007	54	10.1016/j.marpolbul.2006.08.041
Thiel, M; Macaya, EC; Acuna, E; Arntz, WE; Bastias, H; Brokordt, K; Camus, PA; Castilla, JC; Castro, LR; Cortes, M; Dumont, CP; Escribano, R; Fernandez, M; Gajardo, JA; Gaymer, CF; Gomez, I; Gonzalez, AE; Gonzalez, HE; Haye, PA; Illanes, JE; Iriarte, JL; Lancellotti, DA; Luna-Jorquerai, G; Luxoroi, C; Manriquez, PH; Marin, V; Munoz, P; Navarrete, SA; Perez, E; Poulin, E; Sellanes, J; Sepulveda, HH; Stotz, W; Tala, F; Thomas, A; Vargas, CA; Vasquez, JA; Vega, JMA	The Humboldt Current System of northern and central Chile	OCEANOGRAPHY AND MARINE BIOLOGY, VOL 45	The Humboldt Current System (HCS) is one of the most productive marine ecosystems on earth. It extends along the west coast of South America from southern Chile (similar to 42 degrees S) up to Ecuador and the Galapagos Islands near the equator. The general oceanography of the HCS is characterised by a predominant northward flow of surface waters of subantarctic origin and by strong upwelling of cool nutrient-rich subsurface waters of equatorial origin. Along the coast of northern and central Chile, upwelling is localised and its occurrence changes from being mostly continuous (aseasonal) in northern Chile to a more seasonal pattern in southern-central Chile. Several important upwelling centres along the Chilean coast are interspersed with long stretches of coast without or with sporadic and less intense upwelling. Large-scale climatic phenomena (El Nino Southern Oscillation, ENSO) are superimposed onto this regional pattern, which results in a high spatiotemporal heterogeneity, complicating the prediction of ecological processes along the Chilean coast. This limited predictability becomes particularly critical in light of increasing human activities during the past decades, at present mainly in the form of exploitation of renewable resources (fish, invertebrates and macroalgae). This review examines current knowledge of ecological processes in the HCS of northern and central Chile, with a particular focus on oceanographic factors and the influence of human activities, and further suggests conservation strategies for this high-priority large marine ecosystem. Along the Chilean coast, the injection of nutrients into surface waters through upwelling events results in extremely high primary production. This fuels zooplankton and fish production over extensive areas, which also supports higher trophic levels, including large populations of seabirds and marine mammals. Pelagic fisheries, typically concentrated near main upwelling centres (20-22 degrees S, 32-34 degrees S, 36-38 degrees S), take an important share of the fish production, thereby affecting trophic interactions in the HCS. Interestingly, El Nino (EN) events in northern Chile do not appear to cause a dramatic decline in primary or zooplankton production but rather a shift in species composition, which affects trophic efficiency of and interactions among higher-level consumers. The low oxygen concentrations in subsurface waters of the HCS (oxygen-minimum zone, OMZ) influence predator-prey interactions in the plankton by preventing some species from migrating to deeper waters. The OMZ also has a strong effect on the bathymetric distribution of sublittoral soft-bottom communities along the Chilean coast. The few long-term studies available from sublittoral soft-bottom communities in northern and central Chile suggest that temporal dynamics in abundance and community composition are driven by interannual phenomena (EN and the extent and intensity of the OMZ) rather than by intra-annual (seasonal) patterns. Macrobenthic communities within the OMZ are often dominated in biomass by sulphide-oxidising, mat-forming bacteria. Though the contribution of these microbial communities to the total primary production of the system and their function in structuring OMZ communities is still scarcely known, they presumably play a key role, also in sustaining large populations of economically valuable crustaceans. Sublittoral hard bottoms in shallow waters are dominated by macroalgae and suspension-feeder reefs, which concentrate planktonic resources (nutrients and suspended matter) and channel them into benthic food wbs. These communities persist for many years and local extinctions appear to be mainly driven by large-scale events such as EN, which causes direct mortality of benthic organisms due to lack of nutrients/food, high water temperatures, or burial under terrigenous sediments from river runoff. Historic extinctions in combination with local conditions (e.g., vicinity to upwelling centres or substratum availability) produce a heterogeneous distribution pattern of benthic communities, which is also reflected in the diffuse biogeographic limits along the coast of northern-central Chile. Studies of population connectivity suggest that species with highly mobile planktonic dispersal stages maintain relatively continuous populations throughout most of the HCS, while populations of species with limited planktonic dispersal appear to feature high genetic structure over small spatial scales. The population dynamics of most species in the HCS are further influenced by geographic variation in propagule production (apparently caused by local differences in primary production), by temporal variation in recruit supply (caused by upwelling events, frontal systems and eddies), and topographically driven propagule retention (behind headlands, in bay systems and upwelling shadows). Adults as well as larval stages show a wide range of different physiological, ecological and reproductive adaptations. This diversity in life-history strategies in combination with the high variability in environmental conditions (currents, food availability, predation risk, environmental stress) causes strong fluctuations in stocks of both planktonic and benthic resources. At present, it remains difficult to predict many of these fluctuations, which poses particular challenges for the management of exploited resources and the conservation of biodiversity in the HCS. The high spatiotemporal variability in factors affecting ecological processes and the often-unpredictable outcome call for fine-scale monitoring of recruitment and stock dynamics. In order to translate this ecological information into sustainable use of resources, adaptive and co-participative management plans are recommended. Identification of areas with high biodiversity, source and sink regions for propagules and connectivity among local populations together with developing a systematic conservation planning, which incorporates decision support systems, are. important tasks that need to be resolved in order to create an efficient network of Marine Protected Areas along the coast of northern-central Chile. Farther offshore, the continental shelf and the deep-sea trenches off the Chilean coast play an important role in bio-geochemical cycles, which may be highly sensitive to climatic change. Research in this area should be intensified, for which modern research vessels are required. Biodiversity inventories must be accompanied by efforts to foster taxonomic expertise and museum collections (which should integrate morphological and molecular information). Conservation goals set for the next decade can only be achieved with the incorporation of local stakeholders and the establishment of efficient administrative structures. The dynamic system of the HCS in northern-central Chile can only be understood and managed efficiently if a fluent communication between stakeholders, administrators, scientists and politician is guaranteed.	2007	45	
Butterfield, NJ	Macroevolution and macroecology through deep time	PALAEONTOLOGY	The fossil record documents two mutually exclusive macroevolutionary modes separated by the transitional Ediacaran Period. Despite the early appearance of crown eukaryotes and an at least partially oxygenated atmosphere, the pre-Ediacaran biosphere was populated almost exclusively by microscopic organisms exhibiting low diversity, no biogeographical partitioning and profound morphological/evolutionary stasis. By contrast, the post-Ediacaran biosphere is characterized by large diverse organisms, bioprovinciality and conspicuously dynamic macroevolution. The difference can be understood in terms of the unique escalatory coevolution accompanying the early Ediacaran introduction of eumetazoans, followed by their early Cambrian (Tommotian) expansion into the pelagic realm. Eumetazoans reinvented the rules of macroecology through their invention of multitrophic food webs, large body size, life-history trade-offs, ecological succession, biogeography, major increases in standing biomass, eukaryote-dominated phytoplankton and the potential for mass extinction. Both the pre-Ediacaran and the post-Ediacaran biospheres were inherently stable, but the former derived from the simplicity of superabundant microbes exposed to essentially static, physical environments, whereas the latter is based on eumetazoan-induced diversity and dynamic, biological environments. The c. 100-myr Ediacaran transition (extending to the base of the Tommotian) can be defined on evolutionary criteria, and might usefully be incorporated into the Phanerozoic.	2007	50	10.1111/j.1475-4983.2006.00613.x
Zeng, YX; Li, HR; Yu, Y; Chen, B	Phylogenetic relationship and phenotypic comparison of Psychrobacter species isolated from polar oceans	PROGRESS IN NATURAL SCIENCE	To investigate the phylogenetic relationship and biogeography of bacterioplankton in polar oceans, four Psychrobacter strains, BSw10170, BSw20352, BSw20370, and BSw20461, isolated from seawater of the Bering Sea, the Chukchi Sea, and the Prydz Bay, were characterized by 16S rDNA sequencing and physiological and biochemical testing. Results demonstrated that close relationships existed between the Arctic and Antarctic strains with sequence similarities higher than 97%. These four Psychrobacter strains not only showed almost identical phenotypic characteristics among them, but also shared a lot of similarities with those related Psychrobacter species, indicating that psychrotolerance and halotolerance of Psychrobacter strains may be among the reasons for their bipolar, even global distribution in marine environments at the genus level.	2007	17	
Rezacova, M; Neustupa, J	Distribution of the genus Mallomonas (Synurophyceae) - Ubiquitous dispersal in microorganisms evaluated	PROTIST	The neutral dispersal model in protists was suggested as a general principle resulting in either cosmopolitan or ecologically restricted distribution of individual species. The high local diversity results in flat species-area curves of individual protist groups. We investigated the local and regional diversity of the genus Mallomonas in the alluvial plain of upper Luznice in the Czech Republic. About 86.5% of species previously reported from all types of freshwater biotopes within the country were found in our investigated localities. However, there was a considerable increase of species numbers in relation to the total area of available habitats on the continent and global scales. In three species found in our localities, the floristic data indicate a possible geographically restricted distributional pattern. Here, we discuss possible reasons for this phenomenon. (c) 2006 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.	2007	158	10.1016/j.protis.2006.06.004
Staley, JT	The bacterial species dilemma and the genomic-phylogenetic species concept	PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY B-BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES	The number of species of Bacteria and Archaea (ca 5000) is surprisingly small considering their early evolution, genetic diversity and residence in all ecosystems. The bacterial species definition accounts in part for the small number of named species. The primary procedures required to identify new species of Bacteria and Archaea are DNA-DNA hybridization and phenotypic characterization. Recently, 16S rRNA gene sequencing and phylogenetic analysis have been applied to bacterial taxonomy. Although 16S phylogeny is arguably excellent for classification of Bacteria and Archaea from the Domain level down to the family or genus, it lacks resolution below that level. Newer approaches, including multilocus sequence analysis, and genome sequence and microarray analyses, promise to provide necessary information to better understand bacterial speciation. Indeed, recent data using these approaches, while meagre, support the view that speciation processes may occur at the subspecies level within ecological niches (ecovars) and owing to biogeography (geovars). A major dilemma for bacterial taxonomists is how to incorporate this new information into the present hierarchical system for classification of Bacteria and Archaea without causing undesirable confusion and contention. This author proposes the genomic-phylogenetic species concept (GPSC) for the taxonomy of prokaryotes. The aim is twofold. First, the GPSC would provide a conceptual and testable framework for bacterial taxonomy. Second, the GPSC would replace the burdensome requirement for DNA hybridization presently needed to describe new species. Furthermore, the GPSC is consistent with the present treatment at higher taxonomic levels.	2006	361	10.1098/rstb.2006.1914
Fenchel, T; Finlay, BJ	The diversity of microbes: resurgence of the phenotype	PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY B-BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES	The introduction of molecular genetic methods has caused confusion about the nature of microbial species. Environmental DNA extraction has indicated the existence of a vast diversity of genotypes, but how this relates to functional and phenotypic diversity has not been sufficiently explored. It has been implied that genetic distance per se correlates with phenotypic differentiation and thus reflects subtle (but undiscovered) adaptive fine-tuning to the environment, and that microbes may show biogeographic patterns at the genetic level. Here, we argue that no theoretically based species concept exists; species represent only the basic unit in the taxonomic hierarchy. The significance of naming species is that it organizes biological information. The reason why microbial species collectively represent large genetic differences is owing to huge absolute population sizes, absence of allopatric speciation and low extinction rates. Microbial phenotypes are, therefore, ancient in terms of the geological time-scale and have been maintained through stabilizing selection. These problems are discussed with special reference to eukaryotic micro-organisms.	2006	361	10.1098/rstb.2006.1924
Whitaker, RJ	Allopatric origins of microbial species	PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY B-BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES	Although allopatric divergence is a well-accepted mechanism of speciation for eukaryotic macroorganisms, the importance of geographical barriers to divergence in microbial populations is a subject of great debate. Do geographically separated populations of micro-organisms diverge independently, or does their structure fit the often quoted Bass-Becking description everything is everywhere; the environment selects? Aided by high-resolution genetic and genomic tools, the search for microbial marsupials has revealed that in fact both are true; some species of micro-organisms demonstrate allopatric divergence, while others do not. This discovery opens the door for comparative analyses, where questions about the differences in evolutionary and ecological mechanisms that drive divergence and speciation in different microbial species can begin to be explored. Investigating these differences in evolutionary mechanisms will greatly enhance interest in, and understanding of, the dynamic processes that create and maintain the vast diversity of the microbial world.	2006	361	10.1098/rstb.2006.1927
Wilkinson, DM; Smith, HG	An initial account of the terrestrial protozoa of Ascension Island	ACTA PROTOZOOLOGICA	An initial account of the terrestrial protozoan fauna of Ascension Island (7 degrees 57s, 14 degrees 22w), based on nine samples from across the range of the islands habitats, describes 52 taxa: 11 flagellates, 8 gymnamoebae, 1 helizoa, 11 ciliates and 21 testate amoebae. These tend to be cosmopolitan species with wide habitat tolerances (e.g. many are also found in polar regions). The testate amoebae are missing the larger (> 150 mu m) taxa, suggesting these may show dispersal limitation. There is evidence that compared to an area of continental land mass the protozoan fauna may be relatively species poor, however unlike the case with the macroscopic organisms, there is no evidence for endemic species on this island. These results are discussed in the context of microbial biogeography, especially in the context of debates over the claimed cosmopolitan nature of microbial distributions.	2006	45	
Oline, DK	Phylogenetic comparisons of bacterial communities from serpentine and nonserpentine soils	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	I present the results of a culture-independent survey of soil bacterial communities from serpentine soils and adjacent nonserpentine comparator soils using a variety of newly developed phyllogenetically based statistical tools. The study design included site-based replication of the serpentine-to-nonserpentine community comparison over a regional scale (similar to 100 km) in Northern California and Southern Oregon by producing 16S rRNA clone libraries from pairs of samples taken on either side of the serepentine-nonserpentine edaphic boundary at three geographical sites. At the division level, the serpentine and nonserpentine communities were similar to each other and to previous data from forest soils. Comparisons of both richness and Shannon diversity produced no significant differences between any of the libraries, but the vast majority of phyllogenetically based tests were significant, even with only 50 sequences per library. These results suggest that most samples were distinct, consisting of a collection of lineages generally not found in other samples. The pattern of results showed that serpentine communities tended to be more similar to each other than they were to nonserpentine communities, and these differences were at a lower taxonomic scale. Comparisons of two nonserpentine communities generally showed differences, and some results suggest that the geographical site may control community composition as well. These results show the power of phylogenetic tests to discern differences between 16S rRNA libraries compared to tests that discard DNA data to bin sequences into operational taxonomic units, and they stress the importance of replication at larger scales for inferences regarding microbial biogeography.	2006	72	10.1128/AEM.00690-06
Jensen, PR; Mafnas, C	Biogeography of the marine actinomycete Salinispora	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Marine actinomycetes belonging to the genus Salinispora were cultured from marine sediments collected at six geographically distinct locations. Detailed phylogenetic analyses of both 16S rRNA and gyrB gene sequences reveal that this genus is comprised of three distinct but closely related clades corresponding to the species Salinispora tropica, Salinispora arenicola and a third species for which the name Salinispora pacifica is proposed. Salinispora arenicola was cultured from all locations sampled and provides clear evidence for the cosmopolitan distribution of an individual bacterial species. The co-occurrence of S. arenicola with S. tropica and S. pacifica suggests that ecological differentiation as opposed to geographical isolation is driving speciation within the genus. All Salinispora strains cultured to date share greater than 99% 16S rRNA gene sequence identity and thus comprise what has been described as a microdiverse ribotype cluster. The description of this cluster as a new genus, containing multiple species, provides clear evidence that fine-scale 16S rDNA sequence analysis can be used to delineate among closely related species and that more conservative operational taxonomic unit values may significantly underestimate global species diversity.	2006	8	10.1111/j.1462-2920.2006.01093.x
DeChaine, EG; Bates, AE; Shank, TM; Cavanaugh, CM	Off-axis symbiosis found: characterization and biogeography of bacterial symbionts of Bathymodiolus mussels from Lost City hydrothermal vents	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Organisms at hydrothermal vents inhabit discontinuous chemical islands along mid-ocean ridges, a scenario that may promote genetic divergence among populations. The 2003 discovery of mussels at the Lost City Hydrothermal Field provided a means of evaluating factors that govern the biogeography of symbiotic bacteria in the deep sea. The unusual chemical composition of vent fluids, the remote location, and paucity of characteristic vent macrofauna at the site, raised the question of whether microbial symbioses existed at the extraordinary Lost City. If so, how did symbiotic bacteria therein relate to those hosted by invertebrates at the closest known hydrothermal vents along the Mid-Atlantic Ridge (MAR)? To answer these questions, we performed microscopic and molecular analyses on the bacteria found within the gill tissue of Bathymodiolus mussels (Mytilidae, Bathymodiolinae) that were discovered at the Lost City. Here we show that Lost City mussels harbour chemoautotrophic and methanotrophic endosymbionts simultaneously. Furthermore, populations of the chemoautotrophic symbionts from the Lost City and two sites along the MAR are genetically distinct from each other, which suggests spatial isolation of bacteria in the deep sea. These findings provide new insights into the processes that drive diversification of bacteria and evolution of symbioses at hydrothermal vents.	2006	8	10.1111/j.1462-2920.2005.01113.x
Kellogg, CA; Griffin, DW	Aerobiology and the global transport of desert dust	TRENDS IN ECOLOGY & EVOLUTION	Desert winds aerosolize several billion tons of soil-derived dust each year, including concentrated seasonal pulses from Africa and Asia. These transoceanic and transcontinental dust events inject a large pulse of microorganisms and pollen into the atmosphere and could therefore have a role in transporting pathogens or expanding the biogeographical range of some organisms by facilitating long-distance dispersal events. As we discuss here, whether such dispersal events are occurring is only now beginning to be investigated. Huge dust events create an atmospheric bridge over land and sea, and the microbiota contained within them could impact downwind ecosystems. Such dispersal is of interest because of the possible health effects of allergens and pathogens that might be carried with the dust.	2006	21	10.1016/j.tree.2006.07.004
Oline, DK; Schmidt, SK; Grant, MC	Biogeography and landscape-scale diversity of the dominant crenarchaeota of soil	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	We surveyed the diversity of soil Archaea across a large scale elevational gradient of ecosystem types, from foothills forest to alpine tundra in the Front Range of the Rocky Mountains. We used a dilution technique to sequence the single most abundant archaeal 16S rDNA sequence in each of the 40 soil cores distributed across the gradient to compare our results to those of typical 16S clone library studies.We found a greater diversity of sequences than has typically been found in clone library studies from a single site or core, identifying sequences both from the Terrestrial Group and the FFSB Group at several sites. We did not observe any significant environmental correlates with the dominant sequence type, nor was there any relationship between the spatial distance between samples and the phylogenetic similarity of the dominant sequence types. Despite using a very different methodology, our collective results are in remarkably good agreement with other studies of soil Crenarchaeota in terms of the diversity and relative abundance of sequence types identified. We are able to identify two instances of very tightly clustered sequences which we suggest are the results of global selective sweeps-one closely related to SCA1145, an abundant globally distributed group within the Terrestrial Group of Crenarchaeota, and another nested within the more basal FFSB group of sequences. We replicated our sequence results at two levels: first, by repeating the dilution and PCR processes from the same soil core DNA extraction, and second, by performing a replicate DNA extraction from the same homogenized soil core sample. Pairs of sequences produced by the dilution replicates were significantly more similar than the pairs of sequences produced by the extraction replicates, suggesting that soil Crenarchaeota exists in highly localized and discrete clonal populations.	2006	52	10.1007/s00248-006-9101-5
Suatoni, E; Vicario, S; Rice, S; Snell, T; Caccone, A	An analysis of species boundaries and biogeographic patterns in a cryptic species complex: The rotifer - Brachionus plicatilis	MOLECULAR PHYLOGENETICS AND EVOLUTION	Since the advent of molecular phylogenetics, there is increasing evidence that many small aquatic and marine invertebrates-once believed to be single, cosmopolitan species-are in fact cryptic species complexes. Although the application of the biological species concept is central to the identification of species boundaries in these cryptic complexes, tests of reproductive isolation do not frequently accompany phylogenetic studies. Because different species concepts generally identify different boundaries in cryptic complexes, studies that apply multiple species concepts are needed to gain a more detailed understanding of patterns of diversification in these taxa. Here we explore different methods of empirically delimiting species boundaries in the salt water rotifer Brachionus plicatilis by comparing reproductive data (i.e., the traditional biological species concept) to phylogenetic data (the genealogical species concept). Based on a high degree of molecular sequence divergence and largely concordant genetic patterns in COI and ITS1, the genealogical species hypothesis indicates the existence of at least 14 species-the highest estimate for the group thus far. A test of the genealogical species concept with biological crosses shows a fairly high level of concordance, depending on the degree of reproductive success used to draw boundaries. The convergence of species concepts in this group suggests that many of the species within the group may be old. Although the diversity of the group is higher than previously understood, geographic distributions remain broad. Efficient passive dispersal has resulted in global distributions for many species with some evidence of isolation by distance over large geographic scales. These patterns concur with expectations that micro-meiofauna (0.1-1 mm) have biogeographies inter-mediate to microbial organisms and large vertebrates. Sympatry of genetically distant strains is common. (c) 2006 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.	2006	41	10.1016/j.ympev.2006.04.025
Finlay, BJ; Esteban, GF; Brown, S; Fenchel, T; Hoef-Emden, K	Multiple cosmopolitan ecotypes within a microbial eukaryote morphospecies	PROTIST	Microbial eukaryotes that are morphologically indistinguishable (i.e. morphospecies) tend to be genetically diverse. While most protist morphospecies have cosmopolitan distribution, it has been suggested that ribotypes (unique rRNA gene sequences) or rRNA sequence clusters do have biogeography and such clusters may correlate with particular (non-morphological) adaptations. We have studied this in the ciliated protozoan morphospecies Cyclidium glaucoma. Fifty-four isolates collected worldwide represented 31 distinct ribotypes. There was no evidence of biogeographic distribution patterns. For example, identical ribotypes occurred in samples from Argentina, Peru, Morocco, Russia and Ukraine; in samples from Denmark and Australia; and in samples from Great Salt Lake and hyperhaline ponds in Spain. The morphospecies Cyclidium glaucoma is euryhaline and occurs in freshwater, brackish water, seawater, and hyperhaline waters. Evidence suggests that one ribotype cluster occurs only in marine or brackish habitats, and another one has so far been found only in hyperhaline habitats. Two clades seem to occur only in freshwater, but one clade includes ribotypes that were found in freshwater as well as in brackish water. (c) 2006 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.	2006	157	10.1016/j.protis.2006.05.012
Antoine, PO; De Franceschi, D; Flynn, JJ; Nel, A; Baby, P; Benammi, M; Calderon, Y; Espurt, N; Goswami, A; Salas-Gismondi, R	Amber from western Amazonia reveals Neotropical diversity during the middle Miocene	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	Tertiary insects and arachnids have been virtually unknown from the vast western Amazonian basin. We report here the discovery of amber from this region containing a diverse fossil arthropod fauna (13 hexapod families and 3 arachnid species) and abundant microfossil inclusions (pollen, spores, algae, and cyanophyceae). This unique fossil assemblage, recovered from middle Miocene deposits of northeastern Peru, greatly increases the known diversity of Cenozoic tropical-equatorial arthropods and microorganisms and provides insights into the biogeography and evolutionary history of modern Neotropical biota. It also strengthens evidence for the presence of more modern, high-diversity tropical rainforest ecosystems during the middle Miocene in western Amazonia.	2006	103	10.1073/pnas.0605801103
Green, J; Bohannan, BJM	Spatial scaling of microbial biodiversity	TRENDS IN ECOLOGY & EVOLUTION	A central goal in ecology is to understand the spatial scaling of biodiversity. Patterns in the spatial distribution of organisms provide important clues about the underlying mechanisms that structure ecological communities and are central to setting conservation priorities. Although microorganisms comprise much of Earths biodiversity, little is known about their biodiversity scaling relationships relative to that for plants and animals. Here, we discuss current knowledge of microbial diversity at local and global scales. We focus on three spatial patterns: the distance-decay relationship (how community composition changes with geographic distance), the taxa-area relationship, and the local: global taxa richness ratio. Recent empirical analyses of these patterns for microorganisms suggest that there are biodiversity scaling rules common to all forms of life.	2006	21	10.1016/j.tree.2006.06.012
Nozawa, F; Kitazato, H; Tsuchiya, M; Gooday, AJ	Live benthic foraminifera at an abyssal site in the equatorial Pacific nodule province: Abundance, diversity and taxonomic composition	DEEP-SEA RESEARCH PART I-OCEANOGRAPHIC RESEARCH PAPERS	Replicate sediment samples were obtained from 3 closely spaced stations in the Kaplan East (KE) area of the abyssal eastern Equatorial Pacific (similar to 15 degrees N, 119 degrees W; similar to 4100 m water depth), just below the carbonate compensation depth. At each site, 2 (Stns 827, 838) or 3 (Stn 824) complete cores (57 mm W.) were subsampled using 2-3 cut-off syringes of 6.6 cm(3) cross-sectional area. The 0-1 cm sediment layers (> 32 mu m fraction) of these 20 subsamples together yielded 12,513 small, rose-Bengal stained benthic foraminifera dominated by agglutinated taxa, most of them morphologically simple monothalamous types or komokiaceans. Almost two-thirds (65%) of specimens were either obvious fragments, mainly of komokiaceans and tubular foraminifera, or single chambers or small groups of chambers believed to be fragments of very fragile komokiaceans. The remaining 4438 specimens (35%) were considered to be complete individuals. Most (78%) of these complete tests were indeterminate agglutinated spheres (termed psammosphaerids) that constituted 27.6% of all specimens (complete plus fragments). Complete individuals that could be assigned to either described or undescribed species accounted for 983 specimens (22% of complete tests = 7.6% of all specimens); only 26 specimens (0.59% of complete individuals) were calcareous and these had invariably lost their tests through dissolution. Some groups exhibited considerable spatial heterogeneity. For example, 45% of the 3455 indeterminate psammosphaerids and 45% of the 3087 Komokiacean-like chambers occurred in single subcores. A total of 252 morphospecies was recognised; 168 were represented by complete individuals and 84 by fragments. There are clear differences between these Pacific assemblages and those from other oceans; in particular, psammosphaerids and isolated komokiacean chambers appear to be much more prevalent in the Pacific compared to the Atlantic Ocean. Some morphospecies present in Kaplan samples are known from the Atlantic but many are not. Such species may either (1) be ubiquitous but undersampled because they are rare or (2) have geographically patterned distributions. Without further sampling, there is no way to distinguish between these 2 possibilities. Fossilisable tests represent a very small component of the KE assemblage. Many of the delicate, monothalamous species that have little fossilisation potential, including the komokiaceans, accumulate stercomata (waste pellets) and may consume organic material and bacteria associated with sediment. Because of their enormous abundance at abyssal depths, these poorly known taxa probably play a substantial role in carbon cycling over vast areas of the Pacific seafloor. (c) 2006 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2006	53	10.1016/j.dsr.2006.06.001
Taton, A; Grubisic, S; Balthasart, P; Hodgson, DA; Laybourn-Parry, J; Wilmotte, A	Biogeographical distribution and ecological ranges of benthic cyanobacteria in East Antarctic lakes	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	For the first time, the cyanobacterial diversity from microbial mats in lakes of Eastern Antarctica was investigated using microscopic and molecular approaches. The present study assessed the biogeographical distribution of cyanobacteria in Antarctica. Five samples were taken from four lakes spanning a range of different ecological environments in Larsemann Hills, Vestfold Hills and Rauer Islands to evaluate the influence of lake characteristics on the cyanobacterial diversity. Seventeen morphospecies and 28 16S rRNA gene-based operational taxonomic units belonging to the Oscillatoriales, Nostocales and Chroococcales were identified. The internal transcribed spacer was evaluated to complement the 16S rRNA gene data and showed similar but more clear-cut tendencies. The molecular approach suggested that potential Antarctic endemic species, including a previously undiscovered diversity, are more abundant than has been estimated by morphological methods. Moreover, operational taxonomic units, also found outside Antarctica, were more widespread over the continent than potential endemics. The cyanobacterial diversity of the most saline lakes was found to differ from the others, and correlations between the sampling depth and the cyanobacterial communities can also be drawn. Comparison with database sequences illustrated the ubiquity of several cyanobacterial operational taxonomic units and their remarkable range of tolerance to harsh environmental conditions.	2006	57	10.1111/j.1574-6941.2006.0110.x
Pringle, A; Vellinga, EC	Last chance to know? Using literature to explore the biogeography and invasion biology of the death cap mushroom Amanita phalloides (Vaill. Ex fr. : Fr.) link	BIOLOGICAL INVASIONS	The biogeography of fungi is poorly understood and a species in a novel location may be an introduction or an endemic newly identified within its native range. Using the literature of Amanita phalloides as a case study, we aim to illustrate both the limited utility of the historical record in establishing ectomycorrhizal (EM) species as introduced or invasive, and the difficulty of using modern records to establish a current biogeography. Amantia phalloides, the death cap mushroom, is deadly. It is a notorious fungus with a rich literature. Historical records can be used to explore the species distribution in North America, where the earliest publication on A. phalloides dates to 1834, and four different authors identified it as growing in California, Minnesota, Pennsylvania, North Carolina, and Maryland before 1910. In contrast, by mid-century field guides listed A. phalloides as rare on the West Coast and absent from the East Coast. In modern literature A. phalloides is described as a recently introduced and currently invasive species. The contradictions raise two questions: First, is A. phalloides an exotic to North America, and second, can early records be used to delineate the native distribution of any other less infamous EM fungus? We argue that confusion on the introduced status and biogeography of A. phalloides, and perhaps other fungi, is the direct result of shifting species concepts. When publications include an explicit species concept they can be used to establish A. phalloides as an introduction, for example on the East Coast of North America and in Australia. When species concepts are vague the literature is not useful and cannot be used to determine A. phalloides as an introduction, for example on the West Coast of North America or in Asia.	2006	8	10.1007/s10530-005-3804-2
Vesaratchavest, M; Tumapa, S; Day, NPJ; Wuthiekanun, V; Chierakul, W; Holden, MTG; White, NJ; Currie, BJ; Spratt, BG; Feil, EJ; Peacock, SJ	Nonrandom distribution of Burkholderia pseudomallei clones in relation to geographical location and virulence	JOURNAL OF CLINICAL MICROBIOLOGY	Burkholderia pseudomallei is a soil-dwelling saprophyte and the causative agent of melioidosis, a life-threatening human infection. Most cases are reported from northeast Thailand and northern Australia. Using multilocus sequence typing (MLST), we have compared (i) soil and invasive isolates front northeast Thailand and (ii) invasive isolates front Thailand and Australia. A total of 266 Thai B. pseudomallei isolates were characterized (83 soil and 183 invasive). These corresponded to 123 sequence types (STs), the most abundant being ST70 (n = 21), ST167 (n = 15), ST54 (n = 12). and ST58 (n = 11). Two clusters of related STs (clonal complexes) were identified; the larger clonal complex (CC48) did not conform to a simple pattern of radial expansion from an assumed ancestor, while a second (CC70) corresponded to a simple radial expansion from ST70. Despite the large number of STs, overall nucleotide diversity was low. Of the Thai isolates, those isolated front patients with melioidosis were overrepresented in the 10 largest clones (P < 0.0001). There was a significant difference in the classification index between environmental and disease isolates (P < 0.001), confirming that genotypes were not distributed randomly between the two samples. MLST profiles for 158 isolates from Australia (mainly disease associated) contained a number of STs (96) similar to that seen with the Thai invasive isolates, but no ST was found in both populations. There were also differences in diversity and allele frequency distribution between the two populations. This analysis reveals strong, genetic differentiation on the basis of geographical isolation and a significant differentiation on the basis of virulence potential.	2006	44	10.1128/JCM.00629-06
Gibson, JAE; Roberts, D; Van de Vijver, B	Salinity control of the distribution of diatoms in lakes of the Bunger Hills, East Antarctica	POLAR BIOLOGY	The biogeography of Antarctic lacustrine diatoms is incompletely known due in part to the absence of information from some important ice-free regions. In the first detailed study of the diatoms of the Bunger Hills, 29 species were identified in near-edge microbial mats of lakes ranging in salinity from fresh to 77 parts per thousand. Most of the species present had previously been recorded in other East Antarctic coastal oases. The distribution and relative abundance of diatoms within the Bunger Hills were strongly influenced by salinity, but other factors, notably the characteristics of lakes in the immediate area of a particular lake, also played important roles.	2006	29	10.1007/s00300-006-0107-8
Ward, AC; Bora, N	Diversity and biogeography of marine actinobacteria	CURRENT OPINION IN MICROBIOLOGY	The actinomycetes, although not all the Actinobacteria, are easy to isolate from the marine environment. However, their ecological role in the marine ecosystem is largely neglected and various assumptions meant there was little incentive to isolate strains for search and discovery of new drugs. However, the marine environment has become a prime resource in search and discovery for novel natural products and biological diversity, and marine actinomycetes turn out to be important contributors. Similarly, striking advances have been made in marine microbial ecology using molecular techniques and metagenomics, and actinobacteria emerge as an often significant, sometimes even dominant, environmental clade. Both approaches - cultivation methods and molecular techniques - are leading to new insights into marine actinobacterial biodiversity and biogeography. Very different views of actinobacterial diversity emerge from these, however, and the true extent and biogeography of this are still not clear. These are important for developing natural product search and discovery strategies, and biogeography is a hot topic for microbial ecologists.	2006	9	10.1016/j.mib.2006.04.004
van der Gast, CJ; Jefferson, B; Reid, E; Robinson, T; Bailey, MJ; Judd, SJ; Thompson, IP	Bacterial diversity is determined by volume in membrane bioreactors	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	It has been proposed that established models and theories developed in classical ecology could be employed to greatly improve the optimization of waste-water treatment plants (WWTP) by placing the microbiological component onto a model-predictive basis. In particular, this could be achieved by better understanding bacterial community assembly and development. The species-area relationship is one of the oldest biological laws and has been used to describe spatial diversity patterns in contiguous habitats and on islands. In the current study, bacterial communities in seven membrane bioreactors (MBR), of increasing size, located across the UK were sampled. A significant linear relationship between bacterial taxa richness and reactor size was observed and was similar to classical species-area relationships of larger organisms colonizing oceanic islands. Rank-abundance plots revealed a gradient of greater evenness in community structure as MBR volume increased. Application of the Raup and Crick probability-based similarity index indicated a strong role for dispersal in MBR colonization and community structure. Our findings demonstrate that the MBR sampled behaved like islands with respect to bacterial colonization in accordance with the theory of island biogeography. In addition this study provides further evidence that biodiversity at the bacterial level is more similar to that of animals and plants than previously postulated.	2006	8	10.1111/j.1462-2920.2006.00996.x
Zaballos, M; Lopez-Lopez, A; Ovreas, L; Bartual, SG; DAuria, G; Alba, JC; Legault, B; Pushker, R; Daae, FL; Rodriguez-Valera, F	Comparison of prokaryotic diversity at offshore oceanic locations reveals a different microbiota in the Mediterranean Sea	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	The bacterial and archaeal assemblages at two offshore sites located in polar (Greenland Sea; depth: 50 and 2000 m) and Mediterranean (Ionian Sea; depth 50 and 3000 m) waters were studied by PCR amplification and sequencing of the last 450-500 bp of the 16S rRNA gene. A total of 1621 sequences, together with alignable 16S rRNA gene fragments from the Sargasso Sea metagenome database, were analysed to ascertain variations associated with geographical location and depth. The Ionian 50 m sample appeared to be the most diverse and also had remarkable differences in terms of the prokaryotic groups retrieved; surprisingly, however, many similarities were found at the level of large-scale diversity between the Sargasso database fragments and the Greenland 50 m sample. Most sequences with more than 97% sequence similarity, a value often taken as indicative of species delimitation, were only found at a single location/depth; nevertheless, a few examples of cosmopolitan sequences were found in all samples. Depth was also an important factor and, although both deep-water samples had overall similarities, there were important differences that could be due to the warmer waters at depth of the Mediterranean Sea.	2006	56	10.1111/j.1574-6941.2006.00060.x
Blaha, D; Prigent-Combaret, C; Mirza, MS; Moenne-Loccoz, Y	Phylogeny of the 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid deaminase-encoding gene acdS in phytobeneficial and pathogenic Proteobacteria and relation with strain biogeography	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Deamination of the ethylene precursor 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid (ACC) is a key plant-beneficial trait found in plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria (PGPR) and phytosymbiotic bacteria, but the diversity of the corresponding gene (acdS) is poorly documented. Here, acdS sequences were obtained by screening putative ACC deaminase sequences listed in databases, based on phylogenetic properties and key residues. In addition, acdS was sought in 71 proteobacterial strains by PCR amplification and/or hybridization using colony dot blots. The presence of acdS was confirmed in established AcdS(+) bacteria and evidenced noticeably in Azospirillum (previously reported as AcdS(-)), in 10 species of Burkholderia and six Burkholderia cepacia genomovars (which included PGPR, phytopathogens and opportunistic human pathogens), and in five Agrobacterium genomovars. The occurrence of acdS in true and opportunistic pathogens raises new questions concerning their ecology in plant-associated habitats. Many (but not all) acdS(+) bacteria displayed ACC deaminase activity in vitro, including two Burkholderia clinical isolates. Phylogenetic analysis of partial acdS and deduced AcdS sequences evidenced three main phylogenetic clusters, each gathering pathogens and plant-beneficial strains of contrasting geographic and habitat origins. The acdS phylogenetic tree was only partly congruent with the rrs tree. Two clusters gathered both Betaprotobacteria and Gammaproteobacteria, suggesting extensive horizontal transfers of acdS, noticeably between plant-associated Proteobacteria.	2006	56	10.1111/j.1574-6941.2006.00082.x
Kaller, MD; Kelso, WE	Effects of a small-scale clearing on habitat and macroinvertebrates of a coastal bottomland stream in Louisiana	SOUTHWESTERN NATURALIST	Streams in the southeastern USA are commonly affected by streamside disturbance. We investigated the effects of a small-scale clearing (associated with a pipeline crossing) on a third-order stream in southwestern Louisiana by sampling habitat, water chemistry, stream microbes, and benthic and wood-dwelling macroinvertebrates in fall 2002 and spring 2003. We selected 3 locations for sampling, one in a forested section of stream 100 m upstream of a clearing, one within the clearing, and one in a forested section of stream 100 m downstream from the clearing. We detected significantly higher temperature and fecal coliform counts and significantly lower dissolved oxygen, specific conductance, pool-riffle ratio, coarse woody debris, fine organic detritus, and heterotrophic plate counts in the clearing location compared to the upstream and downstream locations. Depth and current velocity did not differ significantly among sampling locations. Despite differences in stream characteristics, we detected only a single statistical difference: Bezzia (Insecta: Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) was significantly lower in density in the clearing location. We conclude that the observed differences in stream characteristics were not biologically substantial enough to noticeably alter composition of the stream macroinvertebrate community. However, multiple small-scale disturbances that increase fragmentation in a watershed would be more likely have significant negative affects on macroinvertebrate community diversity.	2006	51	10.1894/0038-4909(2006)51[143:EOASCO]2.0.CO;2
Hewson, I; Capone, DG; Steele, JA; Fuhrman, JA	Influence of Amazon and Orinoco offshore surface water plumes on oligotrophic bacterioplankton diversity in the west tropical Atlantic	AQUATIC MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	The Amazon and Orinoco River low-salinity plumes extend > 200 km eastwards into the west tropical Atlantic Ocean and Caribbean Sea; combined, they have the greatest discharge of fresh water and suspended sediments to oceans worldwide. However, their impacts upon bacterioplankton assemblages have not been previously described. We investigated bacterioplankton assemblage composition using a sensitive DNA fingerprinting technique-automated rRNA intergenic spacer analysis (ARlSA)-over vertical profiles from surface waters to 1200 m depth. Bacterioplankton fingerprint richness and diversity were lowest immediately below the plume at 40 m, but at all other depths were statistically indistinguishable. Surface water bacterial production was significantly and negatively correlated with salinity (r = -0.805, p < 0.001, n = 22), and fingerprint Simpsons Reciprocal Index (diversity) and the total number of operational taxonomic units (OTU) per fingerprint (richness) were significantly correlated to bacterioplankton production (r = 0.52 and 0.74, respectively, p < 0.05, n = 22), but not to other measured environmental parameters. In both plume and non-plume oceanic waters, assemblages were dissimilar at surface and 40 m, suggesting different selection for taxa occurs vertically at these depths, irrespective of productivity and irradiance. Furthermore, there was no clear relationship between surface water assemblages located within plume waters and those experiencing more oceanic conditions, despite apparently distinct occurrence of certain common (> 1% of fingerprint total amplified DNA fluorescence) OTUs in plume, intermediate plume and oceanic conditions. The inconsistency of total assemblage composition within surface plume waters demonstrates that assemblage composition is not tied directly to salinity but possibly to rapid microbial cycling and mixing of assemblages within small water masses. Moreover, our results demonstrate that the Amazon and Orinoco River offshore plumes have significant effects upon surface and underlying water bacterioplankton production in adjacent tropical waters.	2006	43	10.3354/ame043011
Foissner, W	Biogeography and dispersal of micro-organisms: A review emphasizing protists	ACTA PROTOZOOLOGICA	This review summarizes data on the biogeography and dispersal of bacteria, microfungi and selected protists, such as dinoflagellates, chrysophytes, testate amoebae, and ciliates. Furthermore, it introduces the restricted distribution and dispersal of mosses, ferns and macrofungi as arguments into the discussion on the postulated cosmopolitism and ubiquity of protists. Estimation of diversity and distribution of micro-organisms is greatly disturbed by undersampling, the scarcity of taxonomists, and the frequency of misidentifications. Thus, probably more than 50% of the actual diversity has not yet been described in many protist groups. Notwithstanding, it has been shown that a restricted geographic distribution of micro-organisms occurs in limnetic, marine, terrestrial, and fossil ecosystems. Similar as, in cryptogams and macrofungi about, 30% of the extant supragenefic taxa, described and undescribed, might be morphological and/or genetic and/or molecular endemics. At the present state of knowledge, micro-organism endemicity can be proved/disproved mainly by flagship species, excluding sites (e.g., university ponds) prone to be contaminated by invaders. In future, genetic and molecular data will be increasingly helpful. The wide distribution of many micro-organisms has been attributed to their small size and their astronomical numbers. However, this interpretation is flawed by data from macrofungi, mosses and ferns, many of which occupy distinct areas, in spite of their minute and abundant means of dispersal (spores). Thus, I suggest historic events (split of Pangaea etc.), limited cyst viability and, especially, time as major factors for dispersal and provinciality of micro-organisms. Furthermore, the true number of species and their distribution can hardly be estimated by theories and statistics but require reliable investigations on the number of morphospecies in representative ecosystems. Generally, the doubts on Beijerincks famous metaphor in micro-organisms everything is everywhere can be focussed on a simple question: If the world is teeming with cosmopolitan unicells, where is everybody?	2006	45	
Vos, M; Velicer, GJ	Genetic population structure of the soil bacterium Myxococcus xanthus at the centimeter scale	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Myxococcus xanthus is a gram-negative soil bacterium best known for its remarkable life history of social swarming, social predation, and multicellular fruiting body formation. Very little is known about genetic diversity within this species or how social strategies might vary among neighboring strains at small spatial scales. To investigate the small-scale population structure of M. xanthus, 78 clones were isolated from a patch of soil (16 by,16 cm) in Tubingen, Germany. Among these isolates, 21 genotypes could be distinguished from a concatemer of three gene fragments: csgA (developmental C signal),fibA (extracellular matrix-associated zinc metalloprotease), and pilA (the pilin subunit of type IV pili). Accumulation curves showed that most of the diversity present at this scale was sampled. The pilA gene contains both conserved and highly variable regions, and two frequency-distribution tests provide evidence for balancing selection on this gene. The functional domains in the csgA gene were found to be conserved. Three instances of lateral gene transfer could be inferred from a comparison of individual gene phylogenies, but no evidence was found for linkage equilibrium, supporting the view that M. xanthus evolution is largely clonal. This study shows that M. xanthus is surrounded by a variety of distinct conspecifics in its natural soil habitat at a spatial scale at which encounters among genotypes are likely.	2006	72	10.1128/AEM.72.5.3615-3625.2006
Enticknap, JJ; Kelly, M; Peraud, O; Hill, RT	Characterization of a culturable alphaproteobacterial symbiont common to many marine sponges and evidence for vertical transmission via sponge larvae	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	A closely related group of alphaproteobacteria were found to be present in seven genera of marine sponges from several locations and were shown to be transferred between sponge generations through the larvae in one of these sponges. Isolates of the alphaprotcobacterium were cultured from the sponges Axinella corrugata, Mycale laxissima, Monanchora unguifera, and Niphates digitalis from Key Largo, Florida; Didiscus oxeata and Monanchora unguifera from Discovery Bay, Jamaica; an Acanthostronglyophora sp. from Manado, Indonesia; and Microciona prolifera from the Cheasapeake Bay in Maryland. Isolates were very similar to each other on the basis of 16S rRNA gene sequence (> 99% identity) and are closely related to Pseudovibrio denitrificans. The bacterium was never isolated from surrounding water samples and was cultured from larvae of M. laxissima, indicating that it is a vertically transmitted symbiont in this sponge. Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis, 16S rRNA gene clone library analysis, and fluorescent in situ hybridization with probes specific to the alphaproteobacterium confirmed the presence of this bacterium in the M. laxissitna larvae. The alphaproteobacterium was densely associated with the larvae rather than being evenly distributed throughout the mesohyl. This is the first report of the successful culture of a bacterial symbiont of a sponge that is transferred through the gametes.	2006	72	10.1128/AEM.72.5.3724-3732.2006
Shapiro, RS; Awramik, SM	Favosamaceria cooperi new group and form: A widely dispersed, time-restricted thrombolite	JOURNAL OF PALEONTOLOGY	The distinctive, branched thrombolite, Favosamaceria cooperi new group and form. is found widely in the Great Basin, USA, where it is restricted to the Late Cambrian Saukia trilobite Zone. This thrombolite is distinguished by a hedgerow, mazelike organization of ridges similar to garden walls (maceriae) in plan view, branching of ridges into daughter ridges and columns. the polymorphic nature of dark. 1-4 mm mesoclots, and the relative consistency of maceria width (approximately 1 cm). As a group, Favosainaceria is found elsewhere in Upper Cambrian strata of the Argentine Precordillera, Appalachians. and Upper Mississippi Valley, as well as in Lower Ordovician deposits of the Canadian Arctic and Newfoundland. The distribution of the group around Laurentia illustrates the use of microbialites in biogeographic studies.	2006	80	10.1666/0022-3360(2006)80[411:FCNGAF]2.0.CO;2
Souza, V; Espinosa-Asuar, L; Escalante, AE; Eguiarte, LE; Farmer, J; Forney, L; Lloret, L; Rodriguez-Martinez, JM; Soberon, X; Dirzo, R; Elser, JJ	An endangered oasis of aquatic microbial biodiversity in the Chihuahuan desert	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	The Cuatro Cienegas basin in the Chihuahuan desert is a system of springs, streams, and pools. These ecosystems support > 70 endemic species and abundant living stromatolites and other microbial communities, representing a desert oasis of high biodiversity. Here, we combine data from molecular microbiology and geology to document the microbial biodiversity of this unique environment. Ten water samples from locations within the Cuatro Cienegas basin and two neighboring valleys as well as three samples of wet sediments were analyzed. The phylogeny of prokaryotic populations in the samples was determined by characterizing cultured organisms and by PCR amplification and sequencing of 16S rRNA genes from total community DNA. The composition of microbial communities was also assessed by determining profiles of terminal restriction site polymorphisms of 16S rRNA genes in total community DNA. There were 250 different phylotypes among the 350 cultivated strains. Ninety-eight partial 16S rRNA gene sequences were obtained and classified. The clones represented 38 unique phylotypes from ten major lineages of Bacteria and one of Archaea. Unexpectedly, 50% of the phylotypes were most closely related to marine taxa, even though these environments have not been in contact with the ocean for tens of millions of years. Furthermore, terminal restriction site polymorphism profiles and geological data suggest that the aquatic ecosystems of Cuatro Cienegas are hydrologically interconnected with adjacent valleys recently targeted for agricultural intensification. The findings underscore the conservation value of desert aquatic ecosystems and the urgent need for study and preservation of freshwater microbial communities.	2006	103	10.1073/pnas.0601434103
de Wit, R; Bouvier, T	Everything is everywhere, but, the environment selects; what did Baas Becking and Beijerinck really say?	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY		2006	8	10.1111/j.1462-2920.2006.01017.x
Foti, M; Ma, S; Sorokin, DY; Rademaker, JLW; Kuenen, JG; Muyzer, G	Genetic diversity and biogeography of haloalkaliphilic sulphur-oxidizing bacteria belonging to the genus Thioalkalivibrio	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	A group of 85 isolates of haloalkaliphilic obligately chemolithoautotrophic sulphur-oxidizing bacteria belonging to the genus Thioalkalivibrio were recently obtained from soda lakes in Mongolia, Kenya, California, Egypt and Siberia. They have been analyzed by repetitive extragenic palindromic (rep)-PCR genomic fingerprinting technique with BOX- and (GTG)5-primer set. Cluster analysis was performed using combined fingerprint profiles and a dendrogram similarity value (r) of 0.8 was used to define the same genotype. Fifty-six genotypes were found among the isolates, revealing a high genetic diversity. The strains can be divided into two major clusters, including isolates from the Asiatic (Siberia and Mongolia) and the African (Kenya and Egypt) continents, respectively. The majority (85.9%) of the genotypes were found in only one area, suggesting an endemic character of the Thioalkalivibrio strains. Furthermore, a correlation between fingerprint clustering, geographic origin and the characteristics of the lake of origin was found.	2006	56	10.1111/j.1574-6941.2006.00068.x
Hill, M; Hill, A; Lopez, N; Harriott, O	Sponge-specific bacterial symbionts in the Caribbean sponge, Chondrilla nucula (Demospongiae, Chondrosida)	MARINE BIOLOGY	Marine sponges harbor dense and highly diverse bacterial communities, and some percentage of the microflora appears to be specialized for the sponge habitat. Bacterial diversity was examined in Chondrilla nucula Schmidt to test the hypothesis that some subset of sponge symbiont communities is highly similar regardless of the species of host or habitat requirements of the host. C. nucula was collected from a mangrove channel on Lower Matcumbe Key in the Florida Keys (25 degrees 53N; 80 degrees 42W) in August 1999. Domain-specific universal bacterial primers were used to amplify the 16S rDNA gene from genomic DNA that had been extracted from sponges and the surrounding water. An RFLP technique was used to assess diversity of sponge-associated and environmental bacterial communities. The clone library from C. nucula contained 21 operational taxonomic units (OTUs). None of the 53 OTUs from adjacent water samples were found in the C. nucula library indicating that a distinct community was present in the sponge. Sequence analysis indicated that C. nucula harbors a microbial community as diverse as the microbes from other sponges in different habitats around the world. Phylogenetic analysis placed several C. nucula clones in clades dominated by bacteria that appear to be sponge specialists (e.g., Acidobacteria, Bacteroidetes, and Cyanobacteria). Proportional representation of major bacterial taxonomic groups represented in symbiont communities was compared as a function of geographic location of sponge hosts. This study supports the hypothesis that sponges from different oceans existing in dissimilar habitats harbor closely related bacteria that are distinct from other bacterial lineages and appear specialized for residing within sponges.	2006	148	10.1007/s00227-005-0164-5
Mummey, D; Holben, W; Six, J; Stahl, P	Spatial stratification of soil bacterial populations in aggregates of diverse soils	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Most soil microbial community studies to date have focused on homogenized bulk soil samples. However, it is likely that many important microbial processes occur in spatially segregated microenvironments in the soil leading to a microscale biogeography. This study attempts to localize specific microbial populations to different fractions or compartments within the soil matrix. Microbial populations associated with macroaggregates and inner- versus total-microaggregates of three diverse soils were characterized using culture-independent, molecular methods. Despite their relative paucity in most surveys of soil diversity, representatives of Gemmatimonadetes and Actinobacteria subdivision Rubrobacteridae were found to be highly abundant in inner-microaggregates of most soils analyzed. By contrast, clones affiliated with Acidobacteria were found to be relatively enriched in libraries derived from macroaggregate fractions of nearly all soils, but poorly represented in inner-microaggregate fractions. Based upon analysis of 16S rRNA, active community members within microaggregates of a Georgian Ultisol were comprised largely of Gemmatimonadetes and Rubrobacteridae, while within microaggregates of a Nebraska Mollisol, Rubrobacteridae and Alphaproteobacteria were the predominant active bacterial lineages. This work suggests that microaggregates represent a unique microenvironment that selects for specific microbial lineages across disparate soils.	2006	51	10.1007/s00248-006-9020-5
Portner, HO; Bennett, AF; Bozinovic, F; Clarke, A; Lardies, MA; Lucassen, M; Pelster, B; Schiemer, F; Stillman, JH	Trade-offs in thermal adaptation: The need for a molecular to ecological integration	PHYSIOLOGICAL AND BIOCHEMICAL ZOOLOGY	Through functional analyses, integrative physiology is able to link molecular biology with ecology as well as evolutionary biology and is thereby expected to provide access to the evolution of molecular, cellular, and organismic functions; the genetic basis of adaptability; and the shaping of ecological patterns. This paper compiles several exemplary studies of thermal physiology and ecology, carried out at various levels of biological organization from single genes ( proteins) to ecosystems. In each of those examples, trade-offs and constraints in thermal adaptation are addressed; these trade-offs and constraints may limit species distribution and define their level of fitness. For a more comprehensive understanding, the paper sets out to elaborate the functional and conceptual connections among these independent studies and the various organizational levels addressed. This effort illustrates the need for an overarching concept of thermal adaptation that encompasses molecular, organellar, cellular, and whole-organism information as well as the mechanistic links between fitness, ecological success, and organismal physiology. For this data, the hypothesis of oxygen-and capacity-limited thermal tolerance in animals provides such a conceptual framework and allows interpreting the mechanisms of thermal limitation of animals as relevant at the ecological level. While, ideally, evolutionary studies over multiple generations, illustrated by an example study in bacteria, are necessary to test the validity of such complex concepts and underlying hypotheses, animal physiology frequently is constrained to functional studies within one generation. Comparisons of populations in a latitudinal cline, closely related species from different climates, and ontogenetic stages from riverine clines illustrate how evolutionary information can still be gained. An understanding of temperature-dependent shifts in energy turnover, associated with adjustments in aerobic scope and performance, will result. This understanding builds on a mechanistic analysis of the width and location of thermal windows on the temperature scale and also on study of the functional properties of relevant proteins and associated gene expression mechanisms.	2006	79	10.1086/499986
Inagaki, F; Nunoura, T; Nakagawa, S; Teske, A; Lever, M; Lauer, A; Suzuki, M; Takai, K; Delwiche, M; Colwell, FS; Nealson, KH; Horikoshi, K; DHondt, S; Jorgensen, BB	Biogeographical distribution and diversity of microbes in methane hydrate-bearing deep marine sediments, on the Pacific Ocean Margin	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	The deep subseafloor biosphere is among the least-understood habitats on Earth, even though the huge microbial biomass therein plays an important role for potential long-term controls on global biogeochemical cycles. We report here the vertical and geographical distribution of microbes and their phylogenetic diversities in deeply buried marine sediments of the Pacific Ocean Margins. During the Ocean Drilling Program Legs 201 and 204, we obtained sediment cores from the Peru and Cascadia Margins that varied with respect to the presence of dissolved methane and methane hydrate. To examine differences in prokaryotic distribution patterns in sediments with or without methane hydrates, we studied > 2,800 clones possessing partial sequences (400-500 bp) of the 16S rRNA gene and 348 representative clone sequences (approximate to 1 kbp) from the two geographically separated subseafloor environments. Archaea of the uncultivated Deep-Sea Archaeal Group were consistently the dominant phylotype in sediments associated with methane hydrate. Sediment cores lacking methane hydrates displayed few or no Deep-Sea Archaeal Group phylotypes. Bacterial communities in the methane hydrate-bearing sediments were dominated by members of the JS1 group, Planctomycetes, and Chloroflexi. Results from cluster and principal component analyses, which include previously reported data from the West and East Pacific Margins, suggest that, For these locations in the Pacific Ocean, prokaryotic communities from methane hydrate-bearing sediment cores are distinct from those in hydrate-free cores. The recognition of which microbial groups prevail under distinctive subseafloor environments is a significant step toward determining the role these communities play in Earths essential biogeochemical processes.	2006	103	10.1073/pnas.0511033103
Hentschel, U; Usher, KM; Taylor, MW	Marine sponges as microbial fermenters	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	The discovery of phylogenetically complex, yet highly sponge-specific microbial communities in marine sponges, including novel lineages and even candidate phyla, came as a surprise. At the same time, unique research opportunities opened up, because the microorganisms of sponges are in many ways more accessible than those of seawater. Accordingly, we consider sponges as microbial fermenters that provide exciting new avenues in marine microbiology and biotechnology. This review covers recent findings regarding diversity, biogeography and population dynamics of sponge-associated microbiota, and the data are discussed within the larger context of the microbiology of the ocean.	2006	55	10.1111/j.1574-6941.2005.00046.x
Nesbo, CL; Dlutek, M; Doolittle, WF	Recombination in thermotoga: Implications for species concepts and biogeography	GENETICS	Here we characterize regions of the genomes of eight members of the hyperthermophilic genus Thermotoga. These bacteria differ from each other physiologically and by 3-20% in gene content and occupy physically distinct environments in widely disparate regions of the globe. Among the four different lineages (represented by nine different strains) that we compare, no two are closer than 96% in the average sequences of their genes. By most accepted recent definitions these are different ecotypes and different species. And yet we find compelling evidence for recombination between them. We suggest that no single prokaryotic species concept can accommodate such uncoupling of ecotypic and genetic aspects of cohesion and diversity, and that without a single concept, the question of whether or not prokaryotic species might in general be cosmopolitan cannot be sensibly addressed. We can, however, recast biogeographical questions in terms of the distribution of genes and their alleles.	2006	172	10.1534/genetics.105.049312
Dolan, JR	Microbial biogeography?	JOURNAL OF BIOGEOGRAPHY		2006	33	10.1111/j.1365-2699.2005.01406.x
Vujanovic, V; Hamel, C; Yergeau, E; St-Arnaud, M	Biodiversity and biogeography of Fusarium species from northeastern North American asparagus fields based on microbiological and molecular approaches	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Sixteen Fusarium species were recovered from 52 asparagus commercial fields, representing all major ecological (edaphic and climatic) area of asparagus production in the province of Quebec, eastern Canada. This study extends our understanding of the geographic range of these species. It also provides climatological and edaphic properties linked to community changes and adaptations. Fusarium oxysporum and F. proliferatum were omnipresent and abundant in all five ecological area under study, whereas F. redolens was less frequently found. Species of Fusarium that produce carmine red pigmentation on potato dextrose agar, i.e., F. acuminatum, F. avenaceum, etc., were common at the northern limit of asparagus production. Abundance of red Fusarium species corresponded with a low isolation frequency of F. proliferatum. Nevertheless, F. proliferatum had a high recovery rate throughout Quebec asparagus growing areas, under climatic conditions as cold as those of northern Europe where this species is uncommon in asparagus fields. In the light of these results, redefinition of the geographical distribution of F. proliferatum in asparagus fields is proposed. Intraspecific molecular differences in F. proliferatum and F. oxysporum were detected in the EF-1 alpha sequences and compared with well-characterized strains of North America.	2006	51	10.1007/s00248-005-0046-x
Martiny, JBH; Bohannan, BJM; Brown, JH; Colwell, RK; Fuhrman, JA; Green, JL; Horner-Devine, MC; Kane, M; Krumins, JA; Kuske, CR; Morin, PJ; Naeem, S; Ovreas, L; Reysenbach, AL; Smith, VH; Staley, JT	Microbial biogeography: putting microorganisms on the map	NATURE REVIEWS MICROBIOLOGY	We review the biogeography of microorganisms in light of the biogeography of macroorganisms. A large body of research supports the idea that free-living microbial taxa exhibit biogeographic patterns. Current evidence confirms that, as proposed by the Baas-Becking hypothesis, the environment selects and is, in part, responsible for spatial variation in microbial diversity. However, recent studies also dispute the idea that everything is everywhere. We also consider how the processes that generate and maintain biogeographic patterns in macroorganisms could operate in the microbial world.	2006	4	10.1038/nrmicro1341
Fierer, N; Jackson, RB	The diversity and biogeography of soil bacterial communities	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	For centuries, biologists have studied patterns of plant and animal diversity at continental scales. Until recently, similar studies were impossible for microorganisms, arguably the most diverse and abundant group of organisms on Earth. Here, we present a continental-scale description of soil bacterial communities and the environmental factors influencing their biodiversity. We collected 98 soil samples from across North and South America and used a ribosomal DNA-fingerprinting method to compare bacterial community composition and diversity quantitatively across sites. Bacterial diversity was unrelated to site temperature, latitude, and other variables that typically predict plant and animal diversity, and community composition was largely independent of geographic distance. The diversity and richness of soil bacterial communities differed by ecosystem type, and these differences could largely be explained by soil pH (r(2) = 0.70 and r(2) = 0.58, respectively; P < 0.0001 in both cases). Bacterial diversity was highest in neutral soils and lower in acidic soils, with soils from the Peruvian Amazon the most acidic and least diverse in our study. Our results suggest that microbial biogeography is controlled primarily by edaphic variables and differs fundamentally from the biogeography of macro organisms.	2006	103	10.1073/pnas.0507535103
Hutcheon, JM; Kirsch, JAW	A moveable face: deconstructing the Microchiroptera and a new classification of extant bats	ACTA CHIROPTEROLOGICA	Recent comparative-method and molecular studies have called into question both the classic subordinal division of bats into Megachiroptera versus Microchiroptera and the infraordinal separation of microchiropterans as Yinochiroptera and Yangochiroptera: megabats are not necessarily large, nor are microbats uniformly small; some yinochiropterans may be specially related to megachiropterans whilst others are more nearly affiliated with yangochiropterans; and quite apart from the conflict with DNA comparisons, the microbat dichotomy (based oil moveable versus fused premaxillae) is neither completely cladistic nor parsimonious. We conclude that current appellations - including, the neologism Yinpterochiroptera - no longer embody the authors intended groups or have been so frequently redefined as to be positively misleading. We therefore adopt the new subordinal names Vespertilioniformes (for the group including Emballonuridae, Nycteridae, and the yangochiropterans) and Pteropodiformes (for the taxon comprised of Craseonycteridae, Hipposideridae, Megadermatidae, Rhinolophidae, Rhinopomatidae, and Pteropodidae). These epithets are Ultimately based on the oldest valid generic names for included taxa (respectively Vespertilio Linnaeus, 1758 and Pteropus Brisson, 1762). and are thus impervious to pre-emption or misinterpretation.	2006	8	10.3161/1733-5329(2006)8[1:AMFDTM]2.0.CO;2
Desbruyeres, D; Hashimoto, J; Fabri, MC	Composition and biogeography of hydrothermal vent communities in western pacific back-arc basins	BACK-ARC SPREADING SYSTEMS: GEOLOGICAL, BIOLOGICAL, CHEMICAL, AND PHYSICAL INTERACTIONS	Deep-sea hydrothermal vent communities have been located and studied over different geological and dynamic contexts: fast to slow mid-ocean ridges, back-are basins, volcanic arcs, and active seamounts. The associated vent faunas belong to a small set of mostly endemic taxa relying on chemoautotrophic microbial production, able to stand extreme habitat conditions and to persist in a discontinuous and ephemeral environment. Because of their obligate relations to hydrothermal venting, they disperse only along ridges, stepping from one active hydrothermal vent to another. Discontinuities of the ridges or hydrological barriers can limit along-axis dispersal and thus favor allopatric speciation. Western Pacific back-arc basins are isolated spreading centers, which remain active during a short period of geological time, in the proximity of active and passive continental margins where cold seeps are frequent. The Rim of Fire region thus represents a complex area of potential exchanges between chemosynthetic-based ecosystems. Our present knowledge is restricted to active areas situated in five back-are basins (Lau and North Fiji Basins, Manus Basin, Mariana Trough, Okinawa Trough) and two are volcanoes (Izu-Ogasawara, Kermadec Arc). We here review the distribution and composition of vent-associated biological communities in these basins and arcs, and discuss the faunal affinities among them and the possible migration routes between them and the mid-ocean ridges.	2006	166	
Qian, PY; Dobretsov, S; Dahms, HU; Pawlik, J	Antifouling activity and microbial diversity of two congeneric sponges Callyspongia spp. from Hong Kong and the Bahamas	MARINE ECOLOGY PROGRESS SERIES	Microbial communities of the sponges Callyspongia sp. from Hong Kong and Callyspongia plicifera (Porifera: Demospongia) from the Bahamas were compared with each other and with those from reference substrata using a terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) analysis. The least number of bacterial ribotypes and bacterial isolates were retrieved from Bahamas reference and sponge surfaces, while the bacterial communities from Hong Kong Callyspongia sp. and reference surfaces were more diverse. Microbial communities from the 2 sponges were different from each other and from reference substrata. Gas chromatographic-mass spectrometric (GC-MS) analysis of dichloromethane extracts revealed that more than 60% of the compounds were similar in the 2 species Callyspongia sp. and C, plicifera, compared to the compounds of Halichondria spp. At tissue level (TL) concentrations, both sponge extracts predominantly inhibited the growth of bacteria from reference substrata. Multifactor ANOVA revealed that the source of bacteria (sponge surface, interior, or reference substrata), the geographic location of isolates (Hong Kong or the Bahamas), the sponge extract (from Callyspongia sp. or from C. plicifera), and combinations of these factors contributed significant effects in disc diffusion assay experiments. Sponge extracts at both TL concentrations and 10x dilutions were toxic to larvae of the polychaete Hydroides elegans and the barnacle Balanus amphitrite. Our results suggest that the 2 congeneric sponges Callyspongia spp. from different biogeographic regions have different bacterial associates, while producing relatively similar secondary metabolites. It remains to be explored whether differences in sponge-associated bacterial communities will also hold for other congeneric sponge species from different regions.	2006	324	10.3354/meps324151
Suzuki, Y; Kojima, S; Watanabe, H; Suzuki, M; Tsuchida, S; Nunoura, T; Hirayama, H; Takai, K; Nealson, KH; Horikoshi, K	Single host and symbiont lineages of hydrothermalvent gastropods Ifremeria nautilei (Provannidae): biogeography and evolution	MARINE ECOLOGY PROGRESS SERIES	Hydrothermal-vent gastropods belonging to the genus Ifremeria of the family Provannidae, which derive their nutrition from chemoautotrophic bacterial endosymbionts, constitute an important faunal element in the ecology of deep-sea hydrothermal systems in the SW Pacific. In order to determine phylogenetic relationships between the hosts and endosymbionts of Ifremeria gastropods, as well as their fatty-acid profiles and bulk and compound-specific carbon-isotopic signatures, we analyzed Ifremeria gastropods from the Manus, North Fiji and Lau Back-Arc Basins in the SW Pacific. Partial sequences of the mitochondrial cytochrome c oxidase subunit I gene suggest that Ifremeria gastropods from the 3 basins belong to a single species, Ifremeria nautilei. Based on the 16S rRNA gene sequences and results from fluorescence in situ hybridization analysis, the gill endosymbionts of Ifremeria gastropods from the 3 basins were grouped in a single lineage of gamma-Proteo-bacteria, with sequence similarities of > 98.3%. Placement of the endosymbionts within this single lineage was supported by fatty-acid profiles and carbon-isotopic compositions of the Ifremeria gastropods. Phylogenetic relationships inferred among gastropod hosts and among their endosymbionts were not congruent, implying that acquisition of endosymbionts might be from the environment rather than through vertical transmission. Differences in geographical distribution and host speciation pattern between the confamilial Alviniconcha and Ifremeria gastropods might be attributed to the remarkable differences in symbiotic strategy with chemoautotrophic bacteria.	2006	315	10.3354/meps315167
Hewson, I; Fuhrman, JA	Spatial and vertical biogeography of coral reef sediment bacterial and diazotroph communities	MARINE ECOLOGY PROGRESS SERIES	Coral reefs are globally important marine ecosystems as sites of high biotic diversity. Reef flat sediments are reasonably homogeneous in composition. This substratum is subject to gradients in water motion, grazing pressure and benthic productivity. This study used DNA fingerprinting techniques, automated rRNA intergenic spacer analysis (ARISA), and terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (TRFLP) to examine patterns of bacterial assemblage composition within Heron Reef flat sediments, targeting the entire bacterial community (not including Archaea) and nitrogenfixing bacteria. ARISA fingerprints contained between 51 and 148 operational taxonomic units (OTU) per surface sediment sample. The mean whole-community similarity between adjacent sites along a transect from Heron Island to the reef crest was 0.50 +/- 0.03 (mean +/- SE) Whittaker Index (comparison of relative abundances) and 0.46 +/- 0.03 Jaccard Index (presence/absence only). Comparison of sediment community fingerprints to a water column community fingerprint collected above the reef flat at high tide indicated that sediments contained different assemblages to the water column (mean similarity between sediments and water column assemblage = 0.15 +/- 0.01 Jaccard Index); however, assemblage composition did not differ significantly from that expected by random association. Vertical sediment cores showed dissimilarity between surface (0 to 3 cm) and deep (3 to 5 cm) community fingerprints, which was probably related to redox state. Comparison of fingerprints of fecally-derived sediments from the sea cucumber Holothuria atra and surrounding sediments indicated that the impact of metazoan grazing could not be distinguished from ambient small spatial scale variability in sediment assemblage composition. The nifH-TRFLP fingerprints of sediment prokaryotic assemblages (amplified from all samples, but only in sufficient quantities for analysis from 7 locations) indicated the presence of ubiquitous, potentially diverse diazotroph communities, with little assemblage similarity between locations. Our results suggested that while bacterial assemblages (including communities of nitrogen-fixing bacteria) in sediments of a coral reef are diverse, their assemblage composition is not related to grazing pressure but may be influenced by other biotic and abiotic environmental conditions such wave energy and sediment depth.	2006	306	10.3354/meps306079
Slapeta, J; Lopez-Garcia, P; Moreira, D	Global dispersal and ancient cryptic species in the smallest marine eukaryotes	MOLECULAR BIOLOGY AND EVOLUTION	Small eukaryotic species (< 1 mm) are thought to behave as prokaryotes in that, lacking geographical barriers to their dispersal due to their tiny size, they are ubiquitous. Accordingly, the absence of geographical insulation would imply the existence of a relatively small number of microeukaryotic species. To test these ideas, we sequenced and compared several nuclear, mitochondrial, and chloroplast genes from the isolates of a marine picoeukaryotic alga (similar to 2 mu m), Micromonas pusilla, collected worldwide. Independent and combined phylogenetic analyses demonstrate that this traditional single morphospecies actually comprises several independent lineages, some of which are shown to be ubiquitous in oceans. However, while some lineages group closely related strains, others form distant clusters, revealing the existence of cryptic species. Moreover, molecular dating using a relaxed clock suggests that their first diversification may have started as early as during the Late Cretaceous (similar to 65 MYA), implying that M. pusilla is the oldest group of cryptic species known to date. Our results illustrate that global dispersal of a picoeukaryote is possible in oceans, but this does not imply a reduced species number. On the contrary, we show that the morphospecies concept is untenable because it overlooks a large genetic and species diversity and may lead to incorrect biological assumptions.	2006	23	10.1093/molbev/msj001
Koizumi, I; Shiono, M	Diatoms in the eastern Mediterranean sapropels	NOVA HEDWIGIA	Diatom assemblages preserved in extremely good condition in the sapropel S5 dated at 122127 kyr BP at Hole 971 C were analysed at ultra-high resolution in mm-order thickness based on ecological and biogeographical subdivisions of diatom species for sapropel formation. It is the only diatomaceous sapropel recovered during ODP Leg 160 in the eastern Mediterranean Sea. Diatom assemblages in laminated diatom ooze were compared with non-laminated intervals with the following results: (1) 1.3 times higher diatom abundance, in average, in terms of valve number, (2) 4.4 times higher relative abundance of oceanic species over neritic-littoral species, (3) 2.4 times higher relative abundance of mat-forming Rhizosoleniaceae over the Thalassionemataceae, and (4) lesser abundance of the various fragments of Bacteriastrium spp. and Chaetoceros resting spores. Diatom assemblages in the sapropel 35 at 1.808 myr BP at Hole 969D, which have been reported for the first time from the Mediterranean Sea, are similar to those in laminated intervals in S5 at Hole 971C but Chaetoceros resting spores are up to three times more abundant.	2006		
Weisse, T	Biodiversity of freshwater microorganisms - Achievements, problems, and perspectives	POLISH JOURNAL OF ECOLOGY	The extent and significance of the diversity of freshwater microbes is at present controversially debated. Until 1980 it was assumed that there are no freshwater-specific bacteria and that the total number of bacterial species is low. The advent of molecular tools over the last ten years revealed that there is a bacterial freshwater assemblage which is phylogenetically different from soil and marine bacteria; secondly, it became obvious that the total number of cultured bacterial species (similar to 5900) underestimates bacterial diversity by several orders of magnitude. The current debate centres on 1) how to define a bacterial species and 2) if there is a microbial biogeography. The latter relates to the issue of ubiquity and cosmopolitanism, which is controversially discussed primarily in relation to eukaryotic microorganisms, namely ciliates. Although solid evidence is scarce, many microbial ecologists assume, in accordance with Baas Beckings famous 70-year old dictum - everything is everywhere, the environment selects - that freshwater microorganisms are easily dispersed and, therefore, potentially cosmopolitan. This review focuses on the often neglected second part of Baas Beckings metaphor. Evidence is accumulating rapidly that the environment does not simply act as a filter sensu Gleasons individualistic concept for widely dispersed microbes. Rather, prokaryotic and eukaryotic microorganisms have adapted to their specific habitat and perform better in this environment than newly invading congeners. There is an enormous ecophysiological diversity among closely related freshwater microbes which is neither obvious at the morphospecies level nor at the level of evolutionarily conserved genes, such as the small ribosomal RNA gene. Although this large diversity has been demonstrated for various groups of bacteria and protists, there is currently no measure available to compare microbial biodiversity across prokaryotic and eukaryotic domains. The current challenge is to link genetic divergence to ecophysiological diversity in the major taxa.	2006	54	
Tarasov, VG; Gebruk, AV; Mironov, AN; Moskalev, LI	Deep-sea and shallow-water hydrothermal vent communities: Two different phenomena?	CHEMICAL GEOLOGY	Hydrothermal vent communities from 76 areas lying at depths from 0 to 4100 m were split into two groups - deep and shallow-water, based on the occurrence of vent obligate (restricted to hydrothermal vents) taxa, of a high rank (genus and family). The two groups were then compared based on a large set of environmental, faunistic and community parameters. The degree of obligacy of fauna sharply changes at the depth of approximately 200 m. In 21 shallow-water areas, located at depths < 200 m, vent obligate taxa are absent or their taxonomic rank does not exceed a species. The total number of vent obligate species in shallow water is 8, and their obligacy is uncertain. Data from 55 areas lying at depths from 200 to 4 100 m indicate there are ca. 400 obligate species. In 47 of these areas, obligate vent taxa of the genus or the family rank are present. Obligate taxa of the genus rank appear at 200 m depth, and of the family rank - at 386 m. The depth ca. 200 m corresponds well with differences in community structure and composition and environmental parameters. Deep-sea (> 200 m) hydrothermal communities differ from shallow-water ones (< 200 m) in a much higher ratio of vent obligate taxa. Deep-sea vent communities are also distinguished by the lack of diatom and algae-bacterial mats, phytoplankton, lower species richness, the development of large sulphide structures, higher role of active vents in structuring communities in space, replication of a set of dominant taxa in communities within large regions reproduced through the succession at newly formed vent fields, more pronounced concentric and vertical zonality, higher biomass of macrofauna, the important role of symbiotrophic forms dominating the biomass. The ratio of species with a point species range (endemic to small areas) is higher in the deep sea. There are no significant differences between the vent and non-vent biogeography both in shallow-waters and the deep ocean. Modem deep-sea hydrothermal vent communities have a longer evolutionary history than their shallow-water counterparts. To explain major differences between deep and shallow-water hot vent communities, evolutionary processes need to be analysed over long geological periods and within global vertical zones. It is suggested that the proportion of organic matter derived from chemosynthesis and photosynthesis plays a crucial role in evolution. When calculated for global zones this proportion increases with depth to a certain critical level that separates deep and shallow-water hot vent communities and fauna. Vertical zonation in the distribution of obligate taxa in hydrothermal vent communities indicates that this level is reached at approximately 200 m depth. Differences between deep and shallow-water hydrothermal vent communities are significant enough to distinguish the two different phenomena. The principle differences are a higher ratio of vent obligate taxa and a dominance of symbiotrophic forms in deep-sea hydrothermal vent communities. (c) 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2005	224	10.1016/j.chemgeo.2005.07.021
Oliver, PG; Sellanes, J	New species of Thyasiridae from a methane seepage area off Concepcion, Chile	ZOOTAXA	A new species of Thyasira (T. methanophila n. sp.) is described from a methane seepage area off Concepcion, Chile (similar to 36 degrees S) at bathyal depths. This species shows affinity with other southern ocean species placed in the subgenus Maorithyas. The gross anatomy of the type species of Maorithyas, M. marama Fleming, 1950, is described for the first time. There are no gross anatomical differences in the ctendia, foot and gut, between the above taxa, which suggest that there are no differences anatomically between species living at seeps and species living in other environments. Furthermore, wider comparison of the shells suggests that the subgenus Maorithyas cannot be supported, as the differential characters grade into those of Thyasira. Scanning electron microscopy of the ctenidium, of T. methanophila, revealed filaments with closely packed bacteriocytes each with dense aggregations of small rod shaped bacteria each about 0.5 mu m in length. The bivalve is assumed to be highly dependent on the symbiotic relationship. A second thyasirid was recorded from worn valves only and is assigned to the genus Conchocele. The material is too fragmentary to describe but was compared with C. bisecta and C. novaeguinensis.	2005		
Lozupone, C; Knight, R	UniFrac: a new phylogenetic method for comparing microbial communities	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	We introduce here a new method for computing differences between microbial communities based on phylogenetic information. This method, UniFrac, measures the phylogenetic distance between sets of taxa in a phylogenetic tree as the fraction of the branch length of the tree that leads to descendants from either one environment or the other, but not both. UniFrac can be used to determine whether communities are significantly different, to compare many communities simultaneously using clustering and ordination techniques, and to measure the relative contributions of different factors, such as chemistry and geography, to similarities between samples. We demonstrate the utility of UniFrac by applying it to published 16S rRNA gene libraries from cultured isolates and environmental clones of bacteria in marine sediment, water, and ice. Our results reveal that (i) cultured isolates from ice, water, and sediment resemble each other and environmental clone sequences from sea ice, but not environmental clone sequences from sediment and water; (ii) the geographical location does not correlate strongly with bacterial community differences in ice and sediment from the Arctic and Antarctic; and (iii) bacterial communities differ between terrestrially impacted seawater (whether polar or temperate) and warm oligotrophic seawater, whereas those in individual seawater samples are not more similar to each other than to those in sediment or ice samples. These results illustrate that UniFrac provides a new way of characterizing microbial communities, using the wealth of environmental rRNA sequences, and allows quantitative insight into the factors that underlie the distribution of lineages among environments.	2005	71	10.1128/AEM.71.12.8228-8235.2005
Dolan, JR	An introduction to the biogeography of aquatic microbes	AQUATIC MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Aquatic microbes, like all organisms, have biogeographies, but this subject has attracted relatively little attention. In this review, recent results exploiting techniques of molecular biology are summarized to place in perspective the studies of this Theme Section. The studies considered concern large-scale patterns of spatial distribution among heterotrophic planktonic prokaryotic and eukaryotic microbes. For freshwater bacterioplankton communities, reported patterns are inconsistent. Taxonomic richness may increase with system size, and composition may be related among neighboring bodies of water. However, inconsistencies in patterns may be due to differences in the temporal and spatial scales considered. Among planktonic marine prokaryotes, biogeographic patterns are known only in terms of high level groups, e.g. Archea are perhaps dominant in deep oceanic waters. However, studies of large-scale patterns have just begun and they suggest that some ribotypes or species may be restricted to certain oceanic areas. Eukaryotic microbes appear to characterised by high capacities for both dispersal and gene flow. Recent studies appear to conclude that we can form morphological, genetic and physiological groupings but their inter-relationships are obscure at this point in time.	2005	41	10.3354/ame041039
Fenchel, T	Cosmopolitan microbes and their cryptic species	AQUATIC MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	The notion that microbial species have cosmopolitan distribution is discussed for protists in light of the considerable genetic variation within nominal species. It is concluded that there is no compelling evidence to indicate that different genotypes (cryptic species) have biogeographies or that they originated through allopatric speciation. It is suggested that variation in rRNA gene sequences reflects accumulated neutral mutations which do not necessarily reflect functional diversity. The fundamental value of the species concept is that it provides information on the organism in terms of phenotypic properties.	2005	41	10.3354/ame041049
Lowe, CD; Kemp, SJ; Montagnes, DJS	An interdisciplinary approach to assess the functional diversity of free-living microscopic eukaryotes	AQUATIC MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Free-living microbes are arguably ubiquitously dispersed. Molecular phylogeographies have been used to assess microbial distributions but can be difficult to interpret. Combinations of molecular and ecophysiological data have, however, proven useful in assessing the influence of dispersal, local adaptation and historical contingency on distributions. A logical extension of this approach is to develop molecular markers for ecophysiological traits, which would allow the assessment of adaptations in large numbers of environmental isolates without requiring extensive culturing. To assess this approach, we compared enzyme activity and gene expression of Na+/K+ ATPase in response to salinity, and compared Na+/K+ ATPase mRNA sequences, in 3 Brachionus plicatilis (Rotifera) sibling species. B. plicatilis siblings display different salinity tolerances, which in turn influence their distributions. Na+/K+ ATPase is an important component of salinity tolerance and a potentially useful marker for ecophysiological variation. In all cases, Na+/K+ ATPase enzyme activity and gene expression increased in response to salinity (5 to 50 parts per thousand and paralleled growth rate differences: highest enzyme activity/gene expression occurred in the sibling species that displayed highest growth. However, sequence variation in Na+/K+ ATPase mRNAs was minor (similar to 4 %) and did not match gene expression patterns; thus, differences between siblings in Na+/K+ ATPase occurred as a result of differential expression of highly similar gene transcripts. While we were not able to develop functional molecular markers for salinity tolerance in B. plicatilis, we highlight that the application of phylogenetic and functional markers will be a powerful tool for assessing the distributions of free-living microorganisms.	2005	41	10.3354/ame041067
Pommier, T; Pinhassi, J; Hagstrom, A	Biogeographic analysis of ribosomal RNA clusters from marine bacterioplankton	AQUATIC MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Bacterial cosmopolitanism, which has for a long time been accepted by most microbiologists, confronts recent reports of endemic species and restricted distributions. From a marine perspective, our current knowledge is lacking global pictures of bacterioplankton distribution. Public databases storing nucleotide sequences grow daily from recurrent environmental analyses of the microbial community using the small subunit ribosomal RNA gene (SSU rDNA) sequence as a marker of bacterial occurrence. These studies significantly contribute to our understanding of the global microbial processes. To address the question of whether marine bacterioplankton are cosmopolitan, 7070 SSU rDNA sequences submitted to GenBank were analyzed for sampling information and clustered into distinct ribotypes, based on sequence similarity levels. The resulting distribution maps displayed remarkable patterns of distributions of some members of the bacterioplankton community. Despite a strong bias toward sampling sites in the northern temperate regions of the globe, specific ribotypes showed ubiquitous dispersal whereas other ribotypes showed a distribution restricted to polar regions. These results suggest that marine bacterioplankton components present unexpected global patterns of distributions, where cosmopolitanism appears as an occasional trait.	2005	41	10.3354/ame041079
Baldwin, AJ; Moss, JA; Pakulski, JD; Catala, P; Joux, F; Jeffrey, WH	Microbial diversity in a Pacific Ocean transect from the Arctic to Antarctic circles	AQUATIC MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Microbial diversity in surface waters was examined along a similar to 15 400 km transect of the Pacific Ocean from 70 degrees N to 68 degrees S latitude between late August and early November 2003. Comparative microbial diversity was determined using terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) analysis of PCR amplified 16S and 18S rDNA restriction digested with CfoI and MspI. Bacterial numbers and total chlorophyll were greatest at higher latitudes in both hemispheres, with a smaller peak in equatorial waters. Flow cytometry analysis indicated a strong peak in Prochlorococcus from approximately 30 degrees N to 30 degrees S. Richness at each station was relatively low, with similar to 11 prokaryotic peaks per sample and similar to 12 eukaryotic peaks per community. Overall, prokaryotic populations appeared more diverse, with 181 total terminal restriction fragments (T-RFs) generated, while eukaryotic populations produced a total of 135 T-RFs. Prokaryotic and eukaryotic similarity dendrograms revealed 4 distinct cluster groups relating to regions sub-Arctic/Arctic, temperate, tropical and sub-Antarctic/Antarctic. T-RFLP patterns suggest that microbial communities may be influenced by ambient water temperature, with mid-latitudinal and equatorial communities more similar in composition to each other than to cold water communities. Global distribution of prokaryotic communities revealed an average inter-group similarity of similar to 52 %, while eukaryotic communities showed similar to 51 % similarity, implying that Pacific planktonic communities appear to be fairly homogenous in composition. Several T-RFs were ubiquitously distributed and contributed significantly to each cluster group, while several T-RFs were observed to be endemic to particular oceanic regions. Within-group similarities of >70 % were attributed to 12-14 T-RFs and 8-11 T-RFs in prokaryotic and eukaryotic profiles, respectively, suggesting that a small number of phylogenetic groups were responsible for each cluster group.	2005	41	10.3354/ame041091
Whitfield, J	Biogeography: Is everything everywhere?	SCIENCE	Many microbial ecologists have come to believe that microbes are not infinitely mobile as was once thought. DNA studies have given a more detailed picture of microbial diversity that, argue some, demands a more nuanced view of microbial ecology. Those nuances have spawned a debate over what the DNA data actually show and how a molecular view of microbial diversity can be compared with our species-based view of plant and animal ecology. Answering those questions, in turn, will help scientists better understand the crucial role played by microbes in keeping our ecosystem livable.	2005	310	10.1126/science.310.5750.960
Booth, RK; Zygmunt, JR	Biogeography and comparative ecology of testate amoebae inhabiting Sphagnum-dominated peatlands in the Great Lakes and Rocky Mountain regions of North America	DIVERSITY AND DISTRIBUTIONS	Testate amoebae (Protozoa: Rhizopoda) are common inhabitants of peatlands. Strong relationships between community composition and substrate moisture in Sphagnum-dominated peatlands have made them particularly useful as hydrological proxies in environmental and palaeoenvironmental research. However, stability of these relationships in geographical space is important for widespread applicability. In this study, we compared testate amoeba communities inhabiting Sphagnum-dominated peatlands of the Great Lakes and Rocky Mountain regions of North America. Our primary objectives were to describe patterns of community composition in the two regions, develop hypotheses to explain differences, and determine if taxa occupy similar ecological niches with respect to substrate moisture in both places. Our results indicated that testate amoeba communities are relatively different in the two regions, and these differences are probably caused by differences in climate and peatland trophic status, although other factors may also play a role. However, many taxa do occur in both regions and these taxa had comparable moisture preferences in each region, suggesting that the ecological niches of taxa with respect to substrate moisture are similar even within communities of relatively different composition.	2005	11	10.1111/j.1366-9516.2005.00154.x
von der Heyden, S; Cavalier-Smith, T	Culturing and environmental DNA sequencing uncover hidden kinetoplastid biodiversity and a major marine clade within ancestrally freshwater Neobodo designis	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SYSTEMATIC AND EVOLUTIONARY MICROBIOLOGY	Bodonid flagellates (class Kinetoplastea) are abundant, free-living protozoa in freshwater, soil and marine habitats, with undersampled global biodiversity. To investigate overall bodonid diversity, kinetoplastid-specific PCR primers were used to amplify and sequence 18S rRNA genes from DNA extracted from 16 diverse environmental samples; of 39 different kinetoplastid sequences, 35 belong to the subclass Metakinetoplastina, where most group with the genus Neobodo or the species Bodo saltans, whilst four group with the subclass Prokinetoplastina (Ichthyobodo). To study divergence between freshwater and marine members of the genus Neobodo, 26 new Neobodo designis strains were cultured and their 18S rRNA genes were sequenced. It is shown that the morphospecies N. designis is a remarkably ancient species complex with a major marine clade nested among older freshwater clades, suggesting that these lineages were constrained physiologically from moving between these environments for most of their long history. Other major bodonid clades show less-deep separation between marine and freshwater strains, but have extensive genetic diversity within all lineages and an apparently biogeographically distinct distribution of B. saltans subclades. Clade-specific 18S rRNA gene primers were used for two N. designis subclades to test their global distribution and genetic diversity. The non-overlap between environmental DNA sequences and those from cultures suggests that there are hundreds, possibly thousands, of different rRNA gene sequences of free-living bodonids globally.	2005	55	10.1099/ijs.0.63606-0
McKiness, ZP; McMullin, ER; Fisher, CR; Cavanaugh, CM	A new bathymodioline mussel symbiosis at the Juan de Fuca hydrothermal vents	MARINE BIOLOGY	Until recently, the only major hydrothermal vent biogeographic province not known to include bathymodioline mussels was the spreading centers of the northeast Pacific, but deep-sea dives using DSV Alvin on the Endeavor segment of the Juan de Fuca Ridge (47 degrees 56N 129 degrees 06W; similar to 2,200 m depth) in August 1999 yielded the only recorded bathymodioline mytilids from these northeastern Pacific vents. One specimen in good condition was evaluated for its relatedness to other deep-sea bathymodioline mussels and for the occurrence of chemoautotrophic and/or methanotrophic symbionts in the gills. Phylogenetic analyses of the host cytochrome oxidase I gene show this mussel shares evolutionary alliances with hydrothermal vent and cold seep mussels from the genus Bathymodiolus, and is distinct from other known species of deep-sea bathymodiolines, suggesting this mussel is a newly discovered species. Ultrastructural analyses of gill tissue revealed the presence of coccoid bacteria that lacked the intracellular membranes observed in methanotrophic symbionts. The bacteria may be extracellular but poor condition of the fixed tissue complicated conclusions regarding symbiont location. A single gamma-proteobacterial 16S rRNA sequence was amplified from gill tissue and directly sequenced from gill tissue. This sequence clusters with other mussel chemoautotrophic symbiont 16S rRNA sequences, which suggests a chemoautotrophic, rather than methanotrophic, symbiosis in this mussel. Stable carbon (delta(13)C = -26.6%) and nitrogen (delta(15)N = +5.19%) isotope ratios were also consistent with those reported for other chemoautotroph-mussel symbioses. Despite the apparent rarity of these mussels at the Juan de Fuca vent sites, this finding extends the range of the bathymodioline mussels to all hydrothermal vent biogeographic provinces studied to date.	2005	148	10.1007/s00227-005-0065-7
Silva, C; Vinuesa, P; Eguiarte, LE; Souza, V; Martinez-Romero, E	Evolutionary genetics and biogeographic structure of Rhizobium gallicum sensu lato, a widely distributed bacterial symbiont of diverse legumes	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	We used phylogenetic and population genetics approaches to evaluate the importance of the evolutionary forces on shaping the genetic structure of Rhizobium gallicum and related species. We analysed 54 strains from several populations distributed in the Northern Hemisphere, using nucleotide sequences of three core chromosomal genes (rrs, glnII and atpD) and two auxiliary symbiotic genes ( nifH and nodB) to elucidate the biogeographic history of the species and symbiotic ecotypes ( biovarieties) within species. The analyses revealed that strains classified as Rhizobium mongolense and Rhizobium yanglingense belong to the chromosomal evolutionary lineage of R. gallicum and harbour symbiotic genes corresponding to a new biovar; we propose their reclassification as R. gallicum bv. orientale. The comparison of the chromosomal and symbiotic genes revealed evidence of lateral transfer of symbiotic information within and across species. Genetic differentiation analyses based on the chromosomal protein-coding genes revealed a biogeographic pattern with three main populations, whereas the 16S rDNA sequences did not resolve that biogeographic pattern. Both the phylogenetic and population genetic analyses showed evidence of recombination at the rrs locus. We discuss our results in the light of the contrasting views of bacterial species expressed by microbial taxonomist and evolutionary biologists.	2005	14	10.1111/j.1365-294X.2005.02721.x
Naganuma, T; Hua, PN; Okamoto, T; Ban, S; Imura, S; Kanda, H	Depth distribution of euryhaline halophilic bacteria in Suribati Ike, a meromictic lake in East Antarctica	POLAR BIOLOGY	Euryhaline halophiles grow over a wide range of salinity, from < 3% NaCl (seawater equivalent) to > 15% NaCl and even saturation level (about 30% NaCl). Several species of euryhaline halophiles occur worldwide, especially in marine environments and also in aquatic and terrestrial habitats of the Antarctic ice-free areas. A biogeographic view of Antarctic halophiles is that their migration among lakes on land is more difficult than in marine setting. Ponds and lakes on land may thus serve as islands which facilitate the selection and separation of unique species. We isolated euryhaline halophiles from the saline lake, Suribati Ike, near Syowa Station and placed them into seven groups, each demonstrating a clear depth-related distribution. Six of the seven groups probably represent new species of the genera Halomonas and Marinobacter. This result suggests that Antarctic saline lakes exhibit high selectivity of unique euryhaline halophiles and possibly of other microbial groups.	2005	28	10.1007/s000300-005-0026-0
Zhang, CL; Druzhinina, IS; Kubicek, CP; Xu, T	Trichoderma biodiversity in China: Evidence for a North to South distribution of species in East Asia	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY LETTERS	Towards assessing the biodiversity and biogeography of Trichoderma, we have analyzed the occurrence of Trichoderma species in soil and litter from four areas in China: North (Hebei province), South-East (Zhejiang province), West (Himalayan, Tibet) and South-West (Yunnan province). One hundred and thirty five isolates were grouped according to tentative morphological identification. A representative 64 isolates were verified at the species level by the oligonucleotide barcode program TrichO Key v.1.0 and the custom BLAST server TrichoBLAST, using sequences of the ITS1 and 2 region of the rRNA cluster and from the longest intron of the tef1 (translation elongation factor 1-alpha) gene. Eleven known species (Trichoderma asperellum, T. koningii, T. atroviride, T. viride, T. velutinum, T. cerinum, T. virens, T. harzianum, T. sinensis, T. citrinoviride, T. longibrachiatum) and two putative new species (T. sp. Cl, and T. sp. C2), distinguished from known species both by morphological characters and phylogenetic analysis, were identified. A significant difference in the occurrence of these species was found between the North (Hebei) and South-West (Yunnan) areas, which correlates with previously reported species distributions in Siberia and South-East Asia, respectively. As in previous studies, T. harzianum accounted for almost half of the biodiversity; although, in this study, it was exclusively found in the North, and was predominantly represented by an ITS1 and 2 haplotype, which has so far been rarely found elsewhere. This study therefore reveals a North-South gradient in species distribution in East Asia, and identifies Northern China as a potential center of origin of a unique haplotype of T. harzianum. (C) 2005 Federation of European Microbiological Societies. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2005	251	10.1016/j.femsle.2005.08.034
Maldonado, M; Cortadellas, N; Trillas, MI; Rutzler, K	Endosymbiotic yeast maternally transmitted in a marine sponge	BIOLOGICAL BULLETIN	The detection of an endosymbiotic yeast in demosponges of the genus Chondrilla described here records the first such association within the phylum Porifera. The symbiont, interpreted as a yolk body in previous ultrastructural studies, is a chitinous-walled fission yeast. Chitin was detected by an immunocytochemical technique that labels its beta-1,4-N-acetyl-D-glucosamine residues. Abundant symbiotic yeast cells (4.4 +/- 2.3 cells per 10 mu m(2)) transmitted from the soma through the oocytes to the fertilized eggs are directly propagated by vertical transmission in the female. Vertically transmitted yeast were detected in three Chondrilla species with disjunct biogeographical distributions: the Mediterranean, the Caribbean, and the Australian Pacific. Apparently these yeasts are not present in other demosponge genera. Therefore, the fungal endosymbiosis most likely evolved before or during the diversification of the genus Chondrilla.	2005	209	10.2307/3593127
Pichon, D; Gaia, V; Norman, MD; Boucher-Rodoni, R	Phylogenetic diversity of epibiotic bacteria in the accessory nidamental glands of squids (Cephalopoda : Loliginidae and Idiosepiidae)	MARINE BIOLOGY	Bacterial communities were identified from the accessory nidamental glands (ANGs) of European and Western Pacific squids of the families Loliginidae and Idiosepiidae, as also in the egg capsules, embryo and yolk of two loliginid squid species, and in the entire egg of one idiosepiid squid species. The results of phylogenetic analyses of 16S RNA gene (rDNA) confirmed that several phylotypes of alpha-proteobacteria, gamma-proteobacteria and Cytophaga-Flavobacteria-Bacteroides phylum were present as potential symbiotic associations within the ANGs. Several identified clones were related to reference strains, while others had no known close relatives. Gram positive strains were rare in loliginid squids. Several bacterial groups may play important roles in the function of the ANGs, such as production of the toxic compounds involved in egg protection and carotenoid pigments. Within the eggs, no bacteria were associated with embryo or yolk of Loligo vulgaris and Sepioteuthis lessoniana, but alpha- and gamma-proteobacteria were present in the egg capsules. Most bacterial strains detected in the egg capsules were the same as those found in the ANGs. The cephalopods of temperate regions (European cuttlefishes and the squid L. vulgaris) appear to be associated with one Agrobacterium strain (Agro2) while tropical-subtropical strains (Asian and Australian loliginids) are associated with Silicibacter-related strains, suggesting a biogeographic clustering for the Agrobacterium-like strains.	2005	147	10.1007/s00227-005-0014-5
Maekawa, K; Kon, M; Matsumoto, T; Araya, K; Lo, N	Phylogenetic analyses of fat body endosymbionts reveal differences in invasion times of blaberid wood-feeding cockroaches (Blaberidae : Panesthiinae) into the Japanese archipelago	ZOOLOGICAL SCIENCE	Cockroaches have endosymbiotic bacteria in their fat bodies. Recent molecular phylogenetic analyses on both hosts and endosymbionts have revealed that co-evolution has occurred throughout the history of cockroaches and termites. Co-cladogenesis was also shown among closely related taxa (woodroach genus Cryptocercus; Cryptocercidae), and thus endosymbiont data are likely to be useful for biogeographical analyses. To test the possibility of co-cladogenesis among inter- and intraspecific taxa, as well as the utility of endosymbiont data for inferring biogeographical scenarios, we analyzed rRNA genes of endosymbionts of Japanese and Taiwanese Panesthiinae (Salganea and Panesthia; Blaberidae), on which phylogenetic analyses previously had been performed based on the mitochondrial genes. Statistical analyses on the topologies inferred from both endosymbiont and host mitochondria genes showed that cocladogenesis has occurred. The endosymbiont sequences examined appear to have evolved in a clock-like manner, and their rate of evolution based on the host fossil data showed a major difference in the time of invasion of the two Japanese genera, that is congruent with the recent analyses of their mitochondrial genes.	2005	22	10.2108/zsj.22.1061
Fenchel, T; Finlay, BJ	Bacteria and island biogeography	SCIENCE		2005	309	10.1126/science.309.5743.1997
Mitchell, EAD	Bacteria and island biogeography	SCIENCE		2005	309	
Bell, T; Newman, JA; Thompson, IP; Lilley, AK; van der Gast, CJ	Bacteria and island biogeography - Response	SCIENCE		2005	309	
Pushker, R; DAuria, G; Alba-Casado, JC; Rodriguez-Valera, F	Micro-Mar: a database for dynamic representation of marine microbial biodiversity	BMC BIOINFORMATICS	Background: The cataloging of marine prokaryotic DNA sequences is a fundamental aspect for bioprospecting and also for the development of evolutionary and speciation models. However, large amount of DNA sequences used to quantify prokaryotic biodiversity requires proper tools for storing, managing and analyzing these data for research purposes. Description: The Micro-Mar database has been created to collect DNA diversity information from marine prokaryotes for biogeographical and ecological analyses. The database currently includes 11874 sequences corresponding to high resolution taxonomic genes (16S rRNA, ITS and 23S rRNA) and many other genes including CDS of marine prokaryotes together with available biogeographical and ecological information. Conclusion: The database aims to integrate molecular data and taxonomic affiliation with biogeographical and ecological features that will allow to have a dynamic representation of the marine microbial diversity embedded in a user friendly web interface. It is available online at http:/ /egg.umh.es/micromar/.	2005	6	10.1186/1471-2105-6-222
Provencher, LM; Morse, GE; Weeks, AR; Normark, BB	Parthenogenesis in the Aspidiotus nerii complex (Hemiptera : Diaspididae): A single origin of a worldwide, polyphagous lineage associated with Cardinium bacteria	ANNALS OF THE ENTOMOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF AMERICA	Aspidiotus nerii Bouche, the oleander scale, is a nearly cosmopolitan pest that attacks >100 families of woody plants. A. nerii has long been suspected of comprising multiple cryptic parthenogenetic and sexual species. We amplified and sequenced a 760-bp fragment of cytochrome oxidase I and 2 (COI-COII) from 59 individuals representing four laboratory stocks and 16 wild populations from four biogeographic regions (United States, several Mediterranean countries, South Africa, and New Zealand), along with three outgroup species. We also used polymerase chain reaction (PCR) to assay 92 individuals representing five laboratory stocks and seven wild populations for the presence of the intracellular bacteria Cardinium. We find three highly (>5%) divergent groups of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) haplotypes in A. nerii. Two of these are associated with males and not associated with Cardinium and are inferred to represent sexual populations. The other haplotype group is not associated with males, is associated with Cardinium, and includes laboratory stocks known to be parthenogenetic; this haplotype group is inferred to represent a parthenogenetic lineage. Although Cardinium is associated with the parthenogenetic lineage, a curing experiment that would demonstrate direct parthenogenesis induction by Cardinium has not been done. The parthenogenetic lineage is 5.5-7.3% divergent at COI-II from the closest sexual lineage and comprises five moderately divergent (<= 3.5%) haplotypes. This amount of mtDNA divergence within the parthenogenetic lineage may imply an ancient (>= 1 Mya) origin; however, the amount of amino acid sequence diversity within the parthenogenetic lineage is much greater than in the sexual sister-lineage, implying an elevated rate of nonsynonymous substitution in the parthenogenetic lineage. The highest haplotype diversity is found in New Zealand, and the closest outgroup is found in Australia, suggesting a possible Australasian origin of A. nerii.	2005	98	10.1603/0013-8746(2005)098[0629:PITANC]2.0.CO;2
Richards, TA; Vepritskiy, AA; Gouliamova, DE; Nierzwicki-Bauer, SA	The molecular diversity of freshwater picoeukaryotes from an oligotrophic lake reveals diverse, distinctive and globally dispersed lineages	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	The recent discovery of a diverse phylogenetic assemblage of picoeukaryotes from environments such as oceans, salt marshes and acidic habitats, has expanded the debates about the extent and origin of microbial eukaryotes. However, the diversity of these eukaryote microorganisms, that overlap bacteria in size, and their environmental and biogeographical ubiquity remains poorly understood. Here we survey picoeukaryotes (microbial eukaryotes of 0.2-5 mu m in size) from an oligotrophic (nutrient deficient) freshwater habitat using ribosomal RNA gene sequences. Three taxonomic groups the Heterokonta, Cryptomonads and the Alveolata dominated the detected diversity. Most sequences represented previously unsampled species, with several being unassignable to known taxonomic groups and plausibly represent new or unsampled phyla. Many freshwater phylogenetic groups identified in this study appeared unrelated to picoeukaryotic sequences identified in marine ecosystems, suggesting that aspects of eukaryote microbial diversity are specific to certain aquatic environments. Conversely, at least five phylogenetic clusters comprised sequences from freshwater and globally dispersed and often contrasting environments, supporting the concept that a number of picoeukaryotic lineages are widely distributed.	2005	7	10.1111/j.1462-2920.2005.00828.x
Pringle, A; Baker, DM; Platt, JL; Wares, JP; Latge, JP; Taylor, JW	Cryptic speciation in the cosmopolitan and clonal human pathogenic fungus Aspergillus fumigatus	EVOLUTION	Microbes and other organisms smaller than one to a few millimeters in size are hypothesized to have global populations, in contrast to the geographically restricted ranges of larger organisms. However, fungi, which routinely have reproductive propagules no larger than 10 micrometers, challenge the generality of this hypothesis because recent studies have shown that globally distributed morphological species embrace two or more geographically restricted phylogenetic species. We used the concordance of gene genealogies to recognize phylogenetic species in the globally distributed opportunistic human pathogenic fungus, Aspergillusfumigatus. Based on DNA sequence data of five loci for each of 63 individuals collected from five continents, we have delineated two phylogenetic species in this single morphological species. Unlike all other fungi examined to date, both genetically isolated groups showed a global distribution with no evidence of a correlation between genotype and geographic location. Sexual reproduction has never been observed in A. jumigatus, but when the same data were used to explore the association of alleles at the five loci for one of the phylogenetic species, evidence was found to support recombination. The discovery of a cryptic species is medically relevant because different species are likely to differ in virulence or drug resistance. The discovery of a globally distributed A. funfigatus species clade highlights the need for ecological studies of the fungus to either document global dispersal or propose alternative mechanisms by which it persists as single, global phylogenctic population.	2005	59	10.1111/j.0014-3820.2005.tb01059.x
Kirchman, DL; Dittel, AI; Malmstrom, RR; Cottrell, MT	Biogeography of major bacterial groups in the Delaware Estuary	LIMNOLOGY AND OCEANOGRAPHY	We used fluorescence in situ hybridization to examine the spatial and temporal variation in the abundance of major bacterial groups in the Delaware Estuary. The abundance of alpha- and beta-proteobacteria and Actinobacteria varied systematically in the estuary and mirrored the pattern seen in lakes and oceans. Beta-proteobacteria and Actinobacteria were abundant in the Delaware River but were less so in the marine waters of the Delaware Bay. In contrast, alpha-proteobacteria, including the SAR11 clade, were most abundant in the Bay and rare in the Delaware River. Actinobacteria were active in assimilating thymidine and leucine and appeared to contribute substantially to bacterial production in the Delaware River. Among the several biogeochemical parameters we examined, only salinity accounted for a substantial portion of the variation in abundance of these bacterial groups. However, relative abundance of these groups often varied independently of salinity. Cytophaga-like bacteria were often abundant throughout the estuary, but they did not vary systematically over the estuarine gradient, unlike the other dominant bacterial groups. We hypothesize that this estuary-wide high abundance occurs because Cytophaga-like bacteria are very diverse, more so than other groups. Data on 16S IRNA sequences are consistent with this hypothesis. The consistent biogeographic patterns suggest that some bacterial groups, even at a broad phylogenetic level, operate as ecologically meaningful units for examining some processes, whereas the Cytophaga-like bacteria as now defined might be too diverse to be useful for ecological studies.	2005	50	
Maekawa, K; Park, YC; Lo, N	Phylogeny of endosymbiont bacteria harbored by the woodroach Cryptocercus spp. (Cryptocercidae : Blattaria): Molecular clock evidence for a late Cretaceous-early Tertiary split of Asian and American lineages	MOLECULAR PHYLOGENETICS AND EVOLUTION		2005	36	10.1016/j.ympev.2005.03.033
van der Gast, CJ; Lilley, AK; Ager, D; Thompson, IP	Island size and bacterial diversity in an archipelago of engineering machines	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	There is an increasing realization that progress in bacterial ecology can be further advanced by applying theories and models developed in ecology. Consequently, there is a significant need to assess the applicability of such tools, developed specifically for macroorganisms, for investigating the underlying issues that determine bacterial diversity and community assemblage. In this study, we employed the island biogeography species-area model, originally conceived to assess colonization of islands by macroorganisms, to assess bacterial communities colonizing metal-cutting fluids from machines of increasing sump tank size, taking these to be analogous to islands of variable size. This system was selected because it is well studied and compared with other natural bacterial communities has a relatively low (manageable) diversity. Our findings show that island biogeography theory holds for the bacterial communities studied, in that smaller sump tanks contained lower and putatively less stable diversity, and larger sumps had greater diversity and were temporally stable. It was found that the calculated power law indices (i.e. z-values) were similar for all sample sets, and strikingly, typical of those observed in classical ecology. This was not expected as bacteria have significant distinguishing features such as huge population sizes, rapid asexual reproduction and small body size that facilitate dispersal, and are particularly resistant to extinction.	2005	7	10.1111/j.1462-2920.2005.00802.x
Abell, GCJ; Bowman, JP	Colonization and community dynamics of class Flavobacteria on diatom detritus in experimental mesocosms based on Southern Ocean seawater	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	In order to better understand the ecology of microorganisms responsible for secondary production in the Southern Ocean the activity of Flavobacteria communities on diatom detritus in seawater mesocosms was investigated. Seawater was collected from different parts of the Southern Ocean including the Polar Front Zone (PFZ), ice-edge area of the Antarctic Zone (AZ), and a site in the AZ ice pack. Detritus from the cosmopolitan marine diatom Nitzschia closterium Ehrenberg was resuspended in mesocosms containing seawater filtered to remove particulate organic matter, including particle- associated bacteria and most eukaryotes, but retaining native planktonic bacterial assemblages. Mesocosms were incubated at 2 degrees C and samples analysed for changes in community composition using denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE), real-time PCR and fluorescent in-situ hybridization (FISH). DGGE banding patterns and FISH images demonstrated rapid bacterial colonization of the detritus, dominated by members of class gamma-Proteobacteria, alpha-Proteobacteria and Flavobacteria. Real-time PCR data indicated members of class Flavobacteria were involved in initial colonization of detrital aggregate, however relative abundance stayed at similar levels found for the original native particle- associated populations. 16S rRNA gene DGGE banding patterns and sequence analysis demonstrated significant variation in Flavobacteria community structure occurred in the first 20 days of the experiment before community stabilization occurred. The community structures between the three mesocosms also markedly differed and major colonizers were primarily derived from detectable members of the initial particle-associated Flavobacteria community, however the abundant uncultured Flavobacteria agg58 clone-related and DE cluster 2 clades, previously identified in Southern Ocean seawater were not observed to colonize the detritus. (c) 2005 Federation of European Microbiological Societies. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2005	53	10.1016/j.femsec.2005.01.008
Usher, KM; Ereskovskyz, AV	Larval development, ultrastructure and metamorphosis in Chondrilla australiensis Carter, 1873 (Demospongiae, Chondrosida, Chondrillidae)	INVERTEBRATE REPRODUCTION & DEVELOPMENT	This study investigated the cleavage; development and ultrastructure of larvae and settlers in the oviparous sponge Chondrilla australiensis, using electron and light microscopy. Fertilization is internal, and cleavage is total and equal. Swimming coeloblastula larvae are present after 24 h, and are 50-75 mu m in diameter. They are completely ciliated, spherical or ovoid, with a flattened posterior pole on which longer cilia occur. Larvae are composed only of a monostratified layer consisting of a relatively small number of columnar, monociliated cells. Intercellular junctions join the apical parts of the cells. The small central cavity contains dense populations of bacterial and cyanobacterial symbionts. After a free-swimming period of 24-36 h, larvae settle on the substratum by the anterior pole. Metamorphosis occurs by the dedifferentiation and rearrangement of ciliated cells, which are the source of all adult cells in C. australiensis. Results of our research confirm the monophyly of order Chondrosida.	2005	47	10.1080/07924259.2005.9652146
Rauch, EM; Bar-Yam, Y	Estimating the total genetic diversity of a spatial field population from a sample and implications of its dependence on habitat area	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	The total genetic diversity of a species is a key factor in its persistence and conservation. Because realistic sample sizes are far smaller than the total population, it is impractical to exhaustively characterize diversity of most populations. Here, we demonstrate the possibility of calculating the genetic diversity of a spatial population from a sample using genealogical models. We trace the history of a population by simulating the locations of the ancestors of a particular sample of the population backwards in time. We use this method to estimate the genetic diversity of the global population of Pseudomonas bacteria. The same results are obtained whether using a global sample or a subsample restricted to a particular geographic region (California). The results are also validated by comparing additional predictions of the model to the data. Furthermore, we use these results to show that the level of genetic diversity in a population depends strongly on the size of its habitat, much more strongly than does biodiversity as measured by the number of species. The strong dependence of diversity on habitat area has significant implications for conservation strategies.	2005	102	10.1073/pnas.0408471102
Reche, I; Pulido-Villena, E; Morales-Baquero, R; Casamayor, EO	Does ecosystem size determine aquatic bacterial richness?	ECOLOGY	With the advent of DNA-based molecular technologies, microbial ecologists now have the tools to test whether general ecological patterns apply to microorganisms. In this study, we selected 11 high-mountain lakes from Sierra Nevada (Spain) to test the predictions of island-biogeography theory in relation to ecosystem size and isolation, and to assess the influence of other factors (i.e., ecosystem productivity, resource richness, and biotic interactions) on bacterial community structure. Bacterial operational taxonomic units (OTUs), generated by denaturing-gradient gel electrophoresis of polymerase chain-reaction-amplified 16S rRNA genes, were used as a surrogate of predominant biodiversity units. OTU composition among lakes was heterogeneous, and the number of site-specific OTUs was near 50%. Lake remoteness did not affect the number of bacterial OTUs although the spatial distribution of the lakes significantly influenced bacterial composition. Lakes that were closer together had more similar bacterial fingerprints. We found a consistent positive association between bacterial OTU richness and lake area. The slope of this relationship (0.161 +/- 0.026, including literature data) was similar to slopes obtained for organisms with high dispersion rates.	2005	86	10.1890/04-1587
Hassall, M; Zimmer, M; Loureiro, S	Questions and possible new directions for research into the biology of terrestrial isopods	EUROPEAN JOURNAL OF SOIL BIOLOGY	New directions for research identified during the final plenary discussion of the Sixth Symposium on the Biology of Terrestrial Isopods included: locating enzymes buffering pleon fluids during excretion of ammonia and the use of isopods in ecotoxicology including how they adapt to or tolerate high contaminant levels; how they interact with free living and endosymbiotic microbiota and how Wolbacchia avoids the immune response of isopods. New analyses of mating behaviour raised questions concerning mate choice while new microsatellite techniques may help resolve issues of multiple paternity and sperm competition. In relation to their ecology and biogeography new questions included how does the ability to learn the location of high quality food patches in spatially heterogeneous environments and the existence of an Allee effect, influence the population biology of isopods in the field and how do patterns of invasion and colonisation vary between species with different motility and life history strategies? (c) 2005 Elsevier SAS. All rights reserved.	2005	41	10.1016/j.ejsobi.2005.09.002
Bowman, JP; Nichols, DS	Novel members of the family Flavobacteriaceae from Antarctic maritime habitats including Subsaximicrobium wynnwilliamsii gen. nov., sp nov., Subsaximicrobium saxinquililnus sp nov., Subsaxibacter broadyi gen. nov., sp nov., Lacinutrix copepodicola gen. nov., sp nov., and novel species of the genera Bizionia, Gelidibacter and Gillisia	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SYSTEMATIC AND EVOLUTIONARY MICROBIOLOGY	Several orange- and yellow-pigmented, halophilic, strictly aerobic, chemoheterotrophic, Gram-negative strains were isolated during investigations of maritime Antarctic habitats, including coastal fast sea-ice brine and algae, crustaceans and quartz stone sublithic cyanobacterial biofilms. Isolates investigated in this study belonged to the marine clade of the family Flavobacteriaceae and represented lineages that were either distinct from species with validly published names or appeared to be distinct species within existing genera. A polyphasic taxonomic analysis demonstrated the novelty of these strains, and several new taxa are proposed. Strains from quartz stone sublithic communities were grouped into two new genera designated Subsaximicrobium gen. nov. and Subsaxibacter gen. nov. The genus Subsaximicrobium included the species Subsaximicrobium wynnwilliamsii sp. nov. (type species; type strain G#7(T)=ACAM 1070(T)=CIP 108525(T)) and Subsaximicrobium saxinquilinus sp. nov. (type strain Y4-5(T)=ACAM 1063(T)=CIP 108526(T)). The genus Subsaxibacter contained a single species designated Subsaxibacter broadyi sp. nov. (type strain P7(T)=ACAM 1064(T)=CIP 108527(T)). A novel bacterial strain isolated from the lake-dwelling, calanoid copepod Paralabidocera antarctica was given the name Lacinutrix copepodicola gen. nov., sp. nov. (type strain DJ3(T)=ACAM 1055(T)=CIP 108538(T)). Four novel species of the genus Bizionia were discovered, Bizionia algoritergicola sp. nov. (type strain APA-1(T)=ACAM 1056(T)=CIP 108533(T)) and Bizionia myxarmorum sp. nov. (type strain ADA-4(T)=ACAM 1058(T)=CIP 108535(T)), which were isolated from the carapace surfaces of sea-ice algae-feeding amphipods, and Bizionia gelidisalsuginis sp. nov. (type strain IC164(T)=ACAM 1057(T)=CIP 108536(T)) and Bizionia saleffrena sp. nov. (type strain HFDT=ACAM 1059(T)=CIP 108534(T)), which were isolated from sea-ice brines. Several other novel species were also isolated from sea-ice samples, including two novel species of the genus Gelidibacter, Gelidibacter gilvus sp. nov. (type strain IC158(T)=ACAM 1054(T)=CIP 108531(T)) and Gelidibacter salicanalis sp. nov. (type strain IC162(T)=ACAM 1053(T)=CIP 108532(T)), as well as three novel species of the genus Gillisia, Gillisia illustrilutea sp. nov. (type strain IC157(T)=ACAM 1062(T)=CIP 108530(T)), Gillisia sandarakina sp. nov. (type strain IC148(T)=ACAM 1060(T)=CIP 108529(T)) and Gillisia hiemivivida sp. nov. (type strain IC154(T)=ACAM 106(T)=CIP 108528(T)).	2005	55	10.1099/ijs.0.63527-0
Santamaria, J; Bayman, P	Fungal epiphytes and endophytes of coffee leaves (Coffea arabica)	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Plants harbor diverse communities of fungi and other microorganisms. Fungi are known to occur both on plant surfaces (epiphytes) and inside plant tissues (endophytes), but the two communities have rarely been compared. We compared epiphytic and endophytic fungal communities associated with leaves of coffee (Coffea arabica) in Puerto Rico. We asked whether the dominant fungi are the same in both communities, whether endophyte and epiphyte communities are equally diverse, and whether epiphytes and endophytes exhibit similar patterns of spatial heterogeneity among sites. Leaves of naturalized coffee plants were collected from six sites in Puerto Rico. Epiphytic and endophytic fungi were isolated by placing leaf pieces on potato dextrose agar without and with surface sterilization, respectively. A total of 821 colonies were isolated and grouped into 131 morphospecies. The taxonomic affinities of the four most common nonsporulating fungi were determined by sequencing the nuclear ribosomal internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region: two grouped with Xylaria and one each with Botryosphaeria and Guignardia. Of the most common genera, Pestalotia and Botryosphaeria were significantly more common as epiphytes; Colletotrichum, Xylaria, and Guignardia were significantly more common as endophytes. Suprisingly, more morphospecies occurred as endophytes than as epiphytes. Differences among sites in number of fungi per plant were significant. Thus epiphytic and endophytic communities differed greatly on a single leaf, despite living only millimeters apart, and both communities differed from site to site. Significant correlations between occurrence of fungal morphospecies suggested that fungi may have positive or negative effects on their neighbors. This is the first quantitative comparison of epiphytic and endophytic fungal floras in any plant, and the first to examine endophytic fungi or epiphytic fungi in leaves of coffee, one of the worlds most valuable crops.	2005	50	10.1007/s00248-004-0002-1
Cecca, F; Martin-Garin, B; Marchand, D; Lathuiliere, B; Bartolini, A	Paleoclimatic control of biogeographic and sedimentary events in Tethyan and peri-Tethyan areas during the Oxfordian (Late Jurassic)	PALAEOGEOGRAPHY PALAEOCLIMATOLOGY PALAEOECOLOGY	The paleobiogeographical distribution of Oxfordian ammonites and coral reefs in northern and Central Europe, the Mediterranean area, North and East Africa, and the Middle East and Central Asia is compared with the distribution in time and space of the most important lithofacies. Interest in the Oxfordian is focused on changes in facies and in biogeographical patterns that can be interpreted as the results of climatic events. Paleotemperature trends inferred from oxygen isotopes and paleoclimatic simulations are tested against fossil and facies data. A Late Callovian Early Oxfordian crisis in carbonate production is indicated by the widespread absence of Lower Oxfordian reefal formations. There is a gap (hiatus) in deposition on epicontinental platforms, with Middle Oxfordian deposits resting paraconformably on Upper Callovian, while shales accumulated in adjacent intracratonic basins. Simultaneously, in Mediterranean Tethys, radiolarites accumulated in deep troughs while Rosso Ammonitico facies formed on pelagic swells. However, deposition oil swells wits also discontinuous with numerous gaps (hiatuses) and sequences that are much reduced in thickness. Middle Callovian deposits are generally overlain by Middle Oxfordian limestones, The dearth of carbonates is consistent with it cooling event lasting about I My. By the middle Oxfordian a warming, leading to greenhouse type conditions, is suggested on the basis of both biogeographical (mostly coral-reef distribution) and geochemical data. Carbonates spread onto an extensive European platform while radiolarites reached a maximum development in the Mediterranean Tethys. Two distinct latitudinal belts, with seemingly different accumulation regimes, are therefore inferred. Similar latitudinal belts were also present in the late Oxfordian, when carbonates were widespread. The distribution of reefal facies in the late Oxfordian-early Kimmeridgian fits relatively well with GCMs simulations that imply low rainfall in the Tethyan Mediterranean area and slightly higher precipitation in central and northern Europe. Local salinity variations, reflecting more and or humid conditions, may bias the paleotemperature signal inferred from delta(18)O values. Biogeographical and facies distributions, combined with delta(18)O values, unravel the ambiguity and support a Late Callovian-Early Oxfordian cooling followed by warming in the later Oxfordian. (c) 2005 Published by Elsevier B.V.	2005	222	10.1016/j.palaeo.2005.03.009
Gardener, BBM; Gutierrez, LJ; Joshi, R; Edema, R; Lutton, E	Distribution and biocontrol potential of phlD(+) pseudomonads in corn and soybean fields	PHYTOPATHOLOGY	The abundance and diversity of phlD+ Pseudomonas spp. colonizing the rhizospheres of young, field-grown corn and soybean plants were assayed over a 3-year period. Populations of these bacteria were detected on the large majority of plants sampled in the state of Ohio, but colonization was greater on corn. Although significant variation in the incidence of rhizosphtre colonization was observed from site to site and year to year on both crops, the magnitude of the variation was greatest for The D genotype was detected on plants collected front all 15 counties examined, and it represented the most abundant subpopulation on both crops. Additionally, six other genotypes (A, C, F, I, R. and S) were found to predominate in the rhizosphere of some plants. The most frequently observed of these were the A genotype and a newly discovered S genotype, both of which were found on corn and soybean roots obtained from multiple locations. Multiple isolates of the most abundant enotypes were recovered and characterized. The S genotype was found to be phylogenetically and phenotypically similar to the D genotype. In addition, the novel R genotype was found to be most similar to the A genotype. All of the isolates displayed significant capacities to inhibit the growth of an oomycete pathogen in vitro, but such phenotypes were highly dependent on media used. When tested against multiple oomycete pathogens isolated from soybean, the A genotype was significantly more inhibitory than the D genotype when incubated on 1/ 10 X tryptic soy agar and 1/5X corn meal agar. Seed inoculation with different isolates of the A, D, and S genotypes indicated that significant root colonization, generally in excess of log 5 cells per grain of root, could be attained on both crops. Field trials of the A genotype isolate Wayne1R indicated the capacity of inoculant populations to supplement the activities of native populations so as to increase soybean stands and yields. The relevance of these findings to natural and augmentative biocontrol of root pathogens by these bacteria is discussed.	2005	95	10.1094/PHYTO-95-0715
ODor, R; Gallardo, VA	How to census marine life: ocean realm field projects	SCIENTIA MARINA	COML field projects will extend our understanding of ocean diversity, distribution and abundance from the nearshore to the abyssal plains. In nearshore, coastal and the upper ocean zones where diversity is reasonably well known it will add details about ranges, migrations and population size, but in the deep ocean there are still likely millions of new species to be described. Global coverage with standard, economical protocols is the goal in the shallow zones, but demonstrating and calibrating efficient new technologies in the deeps may be all that is possible in the 10 year life of the program. Representative sampling from such challenging habitats as the continental margins, abyssal plains, seamounts, deep sea vents, ice-covered oceans and kilometers deep mid-waters is planned. There is even a plan to reveal the four billion years of evolution in the microbial oceans, but strong global cooperation, participation and investment will be require to make the these vast hidden realms as well know as the human edges. There is great interest and international teams supporting the COML now and its legacy in Ocean Biogeographic Information System (OBIS) and Global Biodiversity Information Facility (GBIF) will be the foundation of future monitoring and assessment of ocean life.	2005	69	
Yarincik, K; ODor, R	The census of marine life: goals, scope and strategy	SCIENTIA MARINA	The Census of Marine Life aims to assess and explain the changing diversity, distribution, and abundance of marine species from the past to the present, and to project future ocean life. It assembles known historical data back to 1500 in an online Ocean Biogeographic Information System (OBIS) and has over 1000 scientists from 70 countries using advanced technologies to quantify and discover unknown life in under-explored ocean realms. Over 99% of the 6 million records now in OBIS are from the top 1000 m of the water column, so the mid-waters and floor of the open ocean and the polar ice oceans are special targets. Even where the species are known, their distributions and abundance are largely speculative. This report outlines the strategies of COML projects to efficiently reveal the 95% of the biosphere beneath the waves, from microbes to whales. Open access to the OBIS data set will improve capacity to predict future impacts of climate and human activity. The baseline created by 2010 and the calibrated techniques developed will become important tools for monitoring and managing future ocean ecosystems to maintain their capacity to provide crucial services to our blue planet.	2005	69	
Noguez, AM; Arita, HT; Escalante, AE; Forney, LJ; Garcia-Oliva, F; Souza, V	Microbial macroecology: highly structured prokaryotic soil assemblages in a tropical deciduous forest	GLOBAL ECOLOGY AND BIOGEOGRAPHY	Aim To assess the hypothesis that free-living prokaryotes show a pattern of no biogeography by examining the scaling of soil prokaryotic diversity and by comparing it with other groups biogeographical patterns. Location Two sites in the tropical deciduous forest of Chamela, Jalisco, on the western coast of Mexico. Methods We examined the diversity and distribution of soil prokaryotes in two 8 x 8 m quadrats divided in such manner that we could sample at four spatial scales. Restriction fragment length polymorphisms of 16S rRNA genes were used to define operational taxonomic units (OTUs) that we used in lieu of species to assess diversity. Results We found highly structured species assemblages that allowed us to reject multiple predictions of the hypothesis that soil bacteria show no biogeography. The frequency distribution of range size (measured as the occupancy of quadrats) of OTUs followed a hollow curve similar to that of vertebrates on continents. Assemblages showed high levels of beta diversity and a non-random nested pattern of diversity. OTU diversity scaled with area followed a power function with slopes z = 0.42 and 0.47. Main conclusions We demonstrate a non-ubiquitous dispersal for soil prokaryotes, which suggests a complex biogeography similar to that found for terrestrial vertebrates.	2005	14	10.1111/j.1466-822x.2005.00156.x
Bull, AT; Stach, JEM; Ward, AC; Goodfellow, M	Marine actinobacteria: perspectives, challenges, future directions (vol 87, pg 65, 2005)	ANTONIE VAN LEEUWENHOEK INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF GENERAL AND MOLECULAR MICROBIOLOGY	In this paper we evaluate the current state of research on the biology and biotechnology of marine actinobacteria. The topics covered include the abundance, diversity, novelty and biogeographic distribution of marine actinobacteria, ecosystem function, bioprospecting, and a new approach to the exploration of actinobacterial taxonomic space. An agenda for future marine actinobacterial research is suggested based upon consideration of the above issues.	2005	87	10.1007/s10482-005-3678-4
Foissner, W	Two new flagship ciliates (Protozoa, Ciliophora) from Venezuela: Sleighophrys pustulata and Luporinophrys micelae	EUROPEAN JOURNAL OF PROTISTOLOGY	Sleighophrys pustulata nov. gen., nov. spec. and Luporinophrys micelae nov. gen., nov. spec. were discovered in a slightly saline mud and soil sample from some flat, dry puddles in the Maracay National Park on the north coast of Venezuela. Their morphology was studied in vivo, in protargol preparations, and in the scanning electron microscope. The new genera are monotypic and belong to the trachelophyllid haptorids. They are characterized by the unique shape of the epicortical scales (lepidosomes). Sleighophrys pustulata, which has a size of about 180 x 23 mu m, possesses type I and unique type V lepidosomes which are hat-shaped and about 7 x 7 mu m in size. Luporinophrys micelae, which has a size of about 200 x 35 mu m, possesses types I, II, and unique type VI lepidosomes which are narrow, about 10 mu m high cones composed of fibrous stripes connected by polygonal meshes. The conspicuous body size and the richly structured, comparatively large lepidosomes make S. pustulata and L. micelae biogeographic flagships which may help to cast some light on the pending question whether or not microorganisms have biogeographies. The available data suggest that both species have a restricted geographic distribution, not only because they were not described previously, but mainly because they were absent in about 2000 freshwater samples from central Europe and in about 1000 soil samples collected globally. (c) 2004 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.	2005	41	10.1016/j.ejop.2004.10.002
Fitter, AH	Darkness visible: reflections on underground ecology	JOURNAL OF ECOLOGY	1 Soil science and ecology have developed independently, making it difficult for ecologists to contribute to urgent current debates on the destruction of the global soil resource and its key role in the global carbon cycle. Soils are believed to be exceptionally biodiverse parts of ecosystems, a view confirmed by recent data from the UK Soil Biodiversity Programme at Sourhope, Scotland, where high diversity was a characteristic of small organisms, but not of larger ones. Explaining this difference requires knowledge that we currently lack about the basic biology and biogeography of micro-organisms. 2 It seems inherently plausible that the high levels of biological diversity in soil play some part in determining the ability of soils to undertake ecosystem-level processes, such as carbon and mineral cycling. However, we lack conceptual models to address this issue, and debate about the role of biodiversity in ecosystem processes has centred around the concept of functional redundancy, and has consequently been largely semantic. More precise construction of our experimental questions is needed to advance understanding. 3 These issues are well illustrated by the fungi that form arbuscular mycorrhizas, the Glomeromycota. This ancient symbiosis of plants and fungi is responsible for phosphate uptake in most land plants, and the phylum is generally held to be species-poor and non-specific, with most members readily colonizing any plant species. Molecular techniques have shown both those assumptions to be unsafe, raising questions about what factors have promoted diversification in these fungi. One source of this genetic diversity may be functional diversity. 4 Specificity of the mycorrhizal interaction between plants and fungi would have important ecosystem consequences. One example would be in the control of invasiveness in introduced plant species: surprisingly, naturalized plant species in Britain are disproportionately from mycorrhizal families, suggesting that these fungi may play a role in assisting invasion. 5 What emerges from an attempt to relate biodiversity and ecosystem processes in soil is our extraordinary ignorance about the organisms involved. There are fundamental questions that are now answerable with new techniques and sufficient will, such as how biodiverse are natural soils? Do microbes have biogeography? Are there rare or even endangered microbes?	2005	93	10.1111/j.0022-0477.2005.00990.x
Bowman, JP; McCammon, SA; Dann, AL	Biogeographic and quantitative analyses of abundant uncultivated gamma-proteobacterial clades from marine sediment	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	16S rRNA gene-based molecular analyses revealed the presence of several large and so far uncultivated clades within class gamma- Proteobacteria, designated gamma-proteobacterial marine sediment (GMS) clades 1 to 4, in marine sediment. The GMS clades appear only indigenous to marine sediment and so far have an unknown functionality. SYBR Green-based real-time PCR analyses using GMS clade-specific primers indicated GMS clades were a significant part of the bacterial community (0.3-8.7% of total 16S rRNA genes) in both polar and temperate marine sediment samples. Univariate statistical analyses indicated that GMS clade communities were indistinguishable in two temperate coastal sediment samples even though these possessed very different mean grain sizes, organic contents, and organic loading rates. GMS clade communities were slightly different (p < 0.05) between polar and temperate sites, suggesting that psychrophilic adaptation among GMS clade taxa corresponds only to subtle phylogenetic differences. Similar levels of difference were also observed through a sediment core reflecting that through the sediment core history, which spanned similar to 3000 years, GMS clonal diversity shifted only marginally.	2005	49	10.1007/s00248-004-0070-2
Peck, LS; Clark, MS; Clarke, A; Cockell, CS; Convey, P; Detrich, HW; Fraser, KPP; Johnston, IA; Methe, BA; Murray, AE; Romisch, K; Rogers, AD	Genomics: applications to Antarctic ecosystems	POLAR BIOLOGY	Biological research in Antarctica has made considerable progress in science over recent decades. As little as 50 years ago, there was scant knowledge even of the species inhabiting the region. Since then, understanding has developed rapidly, across diverse disciplines including physiology, biochemistry, ecology and biogeography. Some dramatic global-scale discoveries and advances have been made, including the characterisation of antifreeze proteins from notothenioid fish and the finding that some fish lack a heat shock response, the identification of microbial communities living within the surface layers of rocks and description of the simplest faunal communities known, the identification that possibly the fastest environmental and ecological change on earth is occurring in Antarctic lakes, and that the biodiversity of the Southern Ocean is much greater than previously thought. Findings such as these have made biology in cold extreme environments one of the most stimulating areas for research in recent decades. Now, the advent and widespread applicability of the novel genomic technologies promise to move us into a period of equally, or possibly even more, rapid advance. At present, genomic information on Antarctic species is limited mainly to a number of fish species and microbes. However, an increasing number of Antarctic genomics projects are being funded and will significantly increase the amount of molecular information available on a much wider range of species in the near future. Hence it is timely to review progress so far in the use of genomic methods in Antarctic research and identify exciting prospects for dramatic future advances.	2005	28	10.1007/s00300-004-0671-8
Smith, VH; Foster, BL; Grover, JP; Holt, RD; Leibold, MA; deNoyelles, F	Phytoplankton species richness scales consistently from laboratory microcosms to the worlds oceans	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	Species-area relationships have been observed for virtually all major groups of macroorganisms that have been studied to date but have not been explored for microscopic phytoplankton algae, which are the dominant producers in many freshwater and marine ecosystems. Our analyses of data from 142 different natural ponds, lakes, and oceans and 239 experimental ecosystems reveal a strong species-area relationship with an exponent that is invariant across ecosystems that span > 15 orders of magnitude in spatial extent. A striking result is that the species-area relationship derived from small-scale experimental studies correctly scales up to natural aquatic ecosystems. These results significantly broaden our knowledge of the effects of island size on biodiversity and also confirm the relevance of experimentally derived data to the analysis and understanding of larger-scale ecological patterns. In addition, they confirm that patterns in microbial diversity are strongly consistent with those that have been repeatedly reported in the literature for macroorganisms.	2005	102	10.1073/pnas.0500094102
Taylor, MW; Schupp, PJ; de Nys, R; Kjelleberg, S; Steinberg, PD	Biogeography of bacteria associated with the marine sponge Cymbastela concentrica	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Recent debate regarding microbial biogeography has focused largely on free-living microbes, yet those microbes associated with host organisms are also of interest from a biogeographical perspective. Marine eukaryotes and associated bacteria should provide ideal systems in which to consider microbial biogeography, as (i) bacteria in seawater should be able to disperse among individuals of the same host species, yet (ii) potential for adaptation to particular hosts (and thus speciation) also exists. We used 16S rDNA-DGGE (denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis) to examine geographic variability in bacterial community composition in the marine sponge Cymbastela concentrica. Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis banding patterns (and phylogenetic analysis of excised DGGE bands) indicated different communities in Cymbastela concentrica from tropical versus temperate Australia. In contrast, communities were very similar over a 500-km portion of the sponges temperate range. Variation in bacterial community composition was also considered with respect to ocean current patterns. We speculate that the divergent communities in different parts of the sponges range provide evidence of endemism attributed to host association, although variation in environmental factors such as light and temperature could also explain the observed results. Interestingly, bacterial communities in seawater varied much less between tropical and temperate locations than did those in C. concentrica, supporting the concept of widespread dispersal among these free-living microbes.	2005	7	10.1111/j.1462-2920.2004.00711.x
Perez-Jimenez, JR; Kerkhof, LJ	Phylogeography of sulfate-reducing bacteria among disturbed sediments, disclosed by analysis of the dissimilatory sulfite reductase genes (dsrAB)	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Sediment samples were collected worldwide from 16 locations on four continents (in New York, California, New Jersey, Virginia, Puerto Rico, Venezuela, Italy, Latvia, and South Korea) to assess the extent of the diversity and the distribution patterns of sulfate-reducing bacteria (SRB) in contaminated sediments. The SRB communities were examined by terminal restriction fragment (TRF) length polymorphism (TRFLP) analysis of the dissimilatory sulfite reductase genes (dsrAB) with Well digests. The fingerprints of dsrAB genes contained a total of 369 fluorescent TRFs, of which <20% were present in the GenBank database. The global sulfidogenic communities appeared to be significantly different among the anthropogenically impacted (petroleum-contaminated) sites, but nearly all were less diverse than pristine habitats, such as mangroves. A global SRB indicator species of petroleum pollution was not identified. However, several dsrAB gene sequences corresponding to hydrocarbon-degrading isolates or consortium members were detected in geographically widely separated polluted sites. Finally, a cluster analysis of the TRFLP fingerprints indicated that many SRB microbial communities were most similar on the basis of close geographic proximity (tens of kilometers). Yet, on larger scales (hundreds to thousands of kilometers) SRB communities could cluster with geographically widely separated sites and not necessarily with the site with the closest proximity. These data demonstrate that SRB populations do not adhere to a biogeographic distribution pattern similar to that of larger eukaryotic organisms, with the greatest species diversity radiating from the Indo-Pacific region. Rather, a patchy SRB distribution is encountered, implying an initially uniform SRB community that has differentiated over time.	2005	71	10.1128/AEM.71.2.1004-1011.2005
Teeling, EC; Springer, MS; Madsen, O; Bates, P; OBrien, SJ; Murphy, WJ	A molecular phylogeny for bats illuminates biogeography and the fossil record	SCIENCE	Bats make up more than 20% of extant mammals, yet their evolutionary history is largely unknown because of a limited fossil record and conflicting or incomplete phylogenies. Here, we present a highly resolved molecular phylogeny for all extant bat families. Our results support the hypothesis that megabats are nested among four major microbat lineages, which originated in the early Eocene [52 to 50 million years ago (Mya)], coincident with a significant global rise in temperature, increase in plant diversity and abundance, and the zenith of Tertiary insect diversity. Our data suggest that bats originated in Laurasia, possibly in North America, and that three of the major microbat lineages are Laurasian in origin, whereas the fourth is Gondwanan. Combining principles of ghost lineage analysis with molecular divergence dates, we estimate that the bat fossil record underestimates (unrepresented basal branch length, UBBL) first occurrences by, on average, 73% and that the sum of missing fossil history is 61%.	2005	307	10.1126/science.1105113
Anton, J; Pena, A; Valens, M; Santos, F; Glockner, FO; Bauer, M; Dopazo, J; Herrero, J; Rossello-Mora, R; Amann, R	Salinibacter ruber: Genomics and biogeography	Adaptation to Life at High Salt Concentrations in Archaea, Bacteria, and Eukarya		2005	9	
Bull, AT; Stach, JEM; Ward, AC; Goodfellow, M	Marine actinobacteria: Perspectives, challenges, future directions	ANTONIE VAN LEEUWENHOEK INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF GENERAL AND MOLECULAR MICROBIOLOGY	In this paper we evaluate the current state of research on the biology and biotechnology of marine actinobacteria. The topics covered include the abundance, diversity, novelty and biogeographic distribution of marine actinobacteria, ecosystem function, bioprospecting, and a new approach to the exploration of actinobacterial taxonomic space. An agenda for future marine actinobacterial research is suggested based upon consideration of the above issues.	2005	87	10.1007/s10482-004-6562-8
Knittel, K; Losekann, T; Boetius, A; Kort, R; Amann, R	Diversity and distribution of methanotrophic archaea at cold seeps	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	In this study we investigated by using 16S rRNA-based methods the distribution and biomass of archaea in samples from (i) sediments above outcropping methane hydrate at Hydrate Ridge (Cascadia margin off Oregon) and (ii) massive microbial mats enclosing carbonate reefs (Crimea area, Black Sea). The archaeal diversity was low in both locations; there were only four (Hydrate Ridge) and five (Black Sea) different phylogenetic clusters of sequences, most of which belonged to the methanotrophic archaea (ANME). ANME group 2 (ANME-2) sequences were the most abundant and diverse sequences at Hydrate Ridge, whereas ANME-1 sequences dominated the Black Sea mats. Other seep-specific sequences belonged to the newly defined group ANME-3 (related to Methanococcoides spp.) and to the Crenarchaeota of marine benthic group B. Quantitative analysis of the samples by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) showed that ANME-1 and ANME-2 co-occurred at the cold seep sites investigated. At Hydrate Ridge the surface sediments were dominated by aggregates consisting of ANME-2 and members of the Desuffiosarcina-Desulfococcus branch (DSS) (ANME-2/DSS aggregates), which accounted for >90% of the total cell biomass. The numbers of ANME-1 cells increased strongly with depth; these cells accounted 1% of all single cells at the surface and more than 30% of all single cells (5% of the total cells) in 7- to 10-cm sediment horizons that were directly above layers of gas hydrate. In the Black Sea microbial mats ANME-1 accounted for about 50% of all cells. ANME-2/DSS aggregates occurred in microenviromments within the mat but accounted for only 1% of the total cells. FISH probes for the ANME-2a and ANME-2c subclusters were designed based on a comparative 16S rRNA analysis. In Hydrate Ridge sediments ANME-2a/DSS and ANME-2c/DSS aggregates differed significantly in morphology and abundance. The relative abundance values for these subgroups were remarkably different at Beggiatoa sites (80% ANME-2a, 20% ANME-2c) and Calyptogena sites (20% ANME-2a, 80% ANME-2c), indicating that there was preferential selection of the groups in the two habitats. These variations in the distribution, diversity, and morphology of methanotrophic consortia are discussed with respect to the presence of microbial ecotypes, niche formation, and biogeography.	2005	71	10.1128/AEM.71.1.467-479.2005
Abell, GCJ; Bowman, JP	Ecological and biogeographic relationships of class Flavobacteria in the Southern Ocean	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	The abundance, spatial distribution and diversity of class Flavobacteria were investigated in the Southern Ocean euphotic zone across a latitudinal transect and in the ice pack off Eastern Antarctica. Surface seawater samples filter-fractionated into 0.8 mum particulate and 0.2 m planktonic fractions were investigated with different molecular techniques. The abundance of particle-associated Flavobacteria, ascertained with real-time PCR and DGGE band analysis using Flavobacteria-specific primers, was found to be significantly higher in Polar Front Zone (PFZ) and Antarctic Zone (AZ) water samples than in nutrient limited Temperate Zone (TZ) and Sub-Antarctic Zone (SAZ) waters. Abundance of particle-associated Flavobacteria correlated positively with seawater chlorophyll a and nutrient concentrations, suggesting that increased Flavobacteria abundance may relate to enhanced primary production in the PFZ and AZ. This is supported by comparison of DGGE profiles that demonstrated significant differences in the total Flavobacteria community structure and 16S rRNA gene diversity between samples from the PFZ and AZ and those from TZ and SAZ. Sequence analysis revealed a broad diversity amongst class Flavobacteria in the Southern Ocean with several Flavobacteria clades detected in PFZ and AZ waters not detected in TZ and SAZ waters that putatively represent psychrophilic taxa. Sequence data included a large, so far uncultivated, cosmopolitan phylogenetic clade (DE cluster 2) that is distributed throughout the Southern Ocean. (C) 2004 Federation of European Microbiological Societies. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2005	51	10.1016/j.femsec.2004.09.001
Usher, KM; Sutton, DC; Toze, S; Kuo, J; Fromont, J	Inter-generational transmission of microbial symbionts in the marine sponge Chondrilla australiensis (Demospongiae)	MARINE AND FRESHWATER RESEARCH	Mechanisms for the biparental transmission of microbial symbionts to offspring in the marine sponge Chondrilla australiensis are reported. The observation of microbial mutualists in the sperm of C. australiensis is the first report of this kind in any organism, as far as we are aware. The developing eggs were shown by transmission electron microscopy (TEM) to incorporate intercellular cyanobacterial and bacterial symbionts. Nurse cells appeared to transport cyanobacterial symbionts from the surface layers of the sponge to eggs deeper in the matrix, where they were incorporated into the egg cytoplasm prior to spawning. This suggests that a host mechanism exists to actively recognise and incorporate symbionts, ensuring that larvae contain these mutualists before settlement. In addition, an average of 1.64% of mature sperm of C. australiensis contained cyanobacterial symbionts in their cytoplasm. The successful transmission of cyanobacterial symbionts to larvae was demonstrated by autofluorescent microscopy and TEM. The occurrence of organisms with functional mechanisms for transmission of symbionts from both parents to offspring provides the potential for new insights into the nature of host-symbiont interactions.	2005	56	10.1071/MF04304
McKiness, ZP; Cavanaugh, CM	The ubiquitous mussel: Bathymodiolus aff. brevior symbiosis at the Central Indian Ridge hydrothermal vents	MARINE ECOLOGY PROGRESS SERIES	The discovery and exploration of hydrothermal vents on the Central Indian Ridge (CIR) yielded invaluable samples for further resolution of the biogeography of chemoautotrophic symbioses. Mytilid mussels were collected from 2 CIR hydrothermal vent fields and preliminary molecular analyses suggested phylogenetic affinity with the western Pacific vent mussel Bathymodiolus brevior. Resolving whether this mussel, designated B. aff. brevior, hosts a dual symbiosis, as characterized for the 2 Mid-Atlantic Ridge hydrothermal vent mussel species, or a single chemoautotrophic symbiosis, as seen in the Pacific vent mussel species, will provide insight into the evolutionary history of mytilid symbioses. Ultrastructural, physiological, and molecular evidence are reported herein which support the presence of a single endosymbiont phylotype with chemoautotrophic metabolism. Phylogenetic analyses placed this symbiont in the same clade as the vesicomyid clam symbionts, prompting discussion regarding the evolutionary origin of chemoautotrophic symbioses in vent bivalves.	2005	295	10.3354/meps295183
Levin, LA	Ecology of cold seep sediments: Interactions of fauna with flow, chemistry and microbes	OCEANOGRAPHY AND MARINE BIOLOGY - AN ANNUAL REVIEW, VOL. 43	Cold seeps occur in geologically active and passive continental margins, where pore waters enriched in methane are forced upward through the sediments by pressure gradients. The advective supply of methane leads to dense microbial communities with high metabolic rates. Anaerobic methane oxidation presumably coupled to sulphate reduction facilitates formation of carbonates and, in many places, generates extremely high concentrations of hydrogen sulphide in pore waters. Increased food supply, availability of hard substratum and high concentrations of methane and sulphide supplied to free-living and symbiotic bacteria provide the basis for the complex ecosystems found at these sites. This review examines the structures of animal communities in seep sediments and how they are shaped by hydrologic, geochemical and microbial processes. The full size range of biota is addressed but emphasis is on the mid-size sediment-dwelling infauna (foraminiferans, metazoan meiofauna and macrofauna), which have received less attention than megafauna or microbes. Megafaunal biomass at seeps, which far exceeds that of surrounding non-seep sediments, is dominated by bivalves (mytilids, vesicomyids, lucinids and thyasirids) and vestimentiferan tube worms, with pogonophorans, cladorhizid sponges, gastropods and shrimp sometimes abundant. In contrast, seep sediments at shelf and upper slope depths have infaunal densities that often differ very little from those in ambient sediments. At greater depths, seep infauna exhibit enhanced densities, modified composition and reduced diversity relative to background sediments. Dorvilleid, hesionid and ampharetid polychaetes, nematodes, and calcareous foraminiferans are dominant. There is extensive spatial heterogeneity of microbes and higher organisms at seeps. Specialized infaunal communities are associated with different seep habitats (microbial mats, clam beds, mussel beds and tube worms aggregations) and with different vertical zones in the sediment. Whereas fluid flow and associated porewater properties, in particular sulphide concentration, appear to regulate the distribution, physiological adaptations and sometimes behaviour of many seep biota, sometimes the reverse is true. Animal-microbe interactions at seeps are complex and involve symbioses, heterotrophic nutrition, geochemical feedbacks and habitat structure. Nutrition of seep fauna varies, with thiotrophic and methanotrophic symbiotic bacteria fueling most of the megafaunal forms but macrofauna and most meiofauna are mainly heterotrophic. Macrofaunal food sources are largely photosynthesis-based at shallower seeps but reflect carbon fixation by chemosynthesis and considerable incorporation of methane-derived C at deeper seeps. Export of seep carbon appears to be highly localized based on limited studies in the Gulf of Mexico. Seep ecosystems remain one of the oceans true frontiers. Seep sediments represent some of the most extreme marine conditions and offer unbounded opportunities for discovery in the realms of animal-microbe-geochemical interactions, physiology, trophic ecology, biogeography, systematics and evolution.	2005	43	10.1201/9781420037449.ch1
Morowitz, H; Allen, JP; Nelson, M; Alling, A	Closure as a scientific concept and its application to ecosystem ecology and the science of the biosphere	SPACE LIFE SCIENCES: GRAVITY-RELATED EFFECTS ON PLANTS AND SPACEFLIGHT AND MAN-MADE ENVIRONMENTS ON BIOLOGICAL SYSTEMS	Closure is a key concept in the physical sciences that has infrequently been used in ecology. The paper reviews Closure to the flow of matter and energy (adiabatic walls) and Closure to the flow of matter (diathermal walls). A system with rigid adiabatic walls will degrade eventually to chemical equilibrium, a state of maximum entropy. A third type of closure involves semi-permeable walls permitting the flow of one or more types of chemicals. These closure concepts were important to the development of classical thermodynamics and statistical mechanics in the 19th and 20th centuries. Equilibrium is often used to describe a time independent steady state. ThiS usage leads to Confusion, because equilibrium has Such a precise meaning in thermal physics. All living systems are far-from-equilibrium and life cannot persist without the flow of energy. The Earth is an almost materially closed system. Only a small amount of cosmic matter is captured by the Earths gravitational field and only a small fraction of lighter elements escape that field. The Earth receives photon flux from the sun and generates thermal energy from the planetary decay of radioisotopes. A hypothesis can be advanced that the planetary biosphere exists in part because of material closure due to gravitation. In the science of ecology partial material closure has been introduced in limnology and island ecology. This has advanced biogeographical theory and systems ecology. The development in the past half century of first balanced aquaria and terrariums, and then partially materially closed microcosms and mesocosms has also greatly aided the development of ecology as an experimental rather than merely descriptive science. All the above systems are open atmospherically, and often have some water and nutrient inputs. The development of truly materially closed man-made systems offers further scope for the development of experimental ecology. The paper reviews and defines the various types of closed ecological systems: Class 1: natural planetary biospheres (like the Earths); and Class 2: man-made systems which range from laboratory microbial ecospheres to ones capable of human life support: Controlled Environmental Life Support Systems (CELSS such as are being developed by NASA and the European Space Agency), Closed Ecological Systems (such as Bios-3 at the Institute of Biophysics in Krasnoyarsk, Russia and the Biosphere 2 Test Module) to mini-biospheric systems with a complexity of internal ecosystems (e.g., Biosphere 2 and the Closed Ecology Experimental Facility, CEEF, in Japan). (c) 2005 COSPAR. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2005	36	10.1016/j.asr.2005.06.045
Strong, DT; De Wever, H; Merckx, R; Recous, S	Spatial location of carbon decomposition in the soil pore system	EUROPEAN JOURNAL OF SOIL SCIENCE	We sought to examine the distribution of carbon (C) decomposition within the framework of the soil pore system. Soils were sampled from a transect having a natural gradient in pore-size distribution. After the addition of labelled wheat straw (C-13) the repacked soil columns were incubated (25degreesC) at soil water matric potentials of either -75 kPa or -5 kPa and for either 4 or 90 days. Pore-size distribution was determined for each soil column after incubation and soils were then analysed for soluble C, label-derived residual C, label-derived and native biomass C, nematode abundance, and ergosterol concentration as an indicator of fungal biomass. Overall, the data suggested that pore-size distribution and its interaction with soil water give rise to a highly stratified biogeography of organisms through the pore system. This results in different rates of decomposition in pores of different size. Added plant material seemed to decompose most rapidly in soils with a relatively large volume of pores with neck diameters c. 15-60 mum and most slowly in soils with large volumes of pores with neck diameters < 4 mum. Regression analysis suggested that at matric potentials of both -75 kPa and -5 kPa the fastest decomposition of organic substrate occurred close to the gas-water interface. This analysis also implied that slower rates of decomposition occur in the pore class 60-300 mum. Correlations between the mass of soil biota and the pore volume of each pore class point to the importance of fungi and possibly nematodes in the rapid decomposition of C in the pores c. 15-60 mum during the early stages of decomposition.	2004	55	10.1111/j.1365-2389.2004.00639.x
Shinohara, A; Suzuki, H; Tsuchiya, K; Zhang, YP; Luo, J; Jiang, XL; Wang, YX; Campbell, KL	Evolution and biogeography of talpid moles from continental East Asia and the Japanese islands inferred from mitochondrial and nuclear gene sequences	ZOOLOGICAL SCIENCE	We sequenced the cytochrome b gene from two little-studied mammal species from the highlands of Southwest China, the long-tailed mole Scaptonyx fusicaudus and the gracile shrew-like mole Uropsilus gracilis. This data was used to examine the phylogenetic relationships among 19 talpid species within the family Talpidae (Mammalia: Eulipotyphla). Cytochrome b gene trees supported a basal placement of shrew-like moles (Uropsilus) within the Talpidae, and suggested that fossorial specializations arose twice during talpid evolution. To assess the evolutionary relationships of moles endemic to this region, we additionally sequenced the 12S rRNA gene and the nuclear recombination-activating gene-1 from eight and ten East Asian taxa, respectively. Analyses of these single and concatenated data sets suggested that East Asian shrew moles diverged prior to the evolution of fossorial Eurasian moles. However, we were unable to determine whether semi-fossorial shrew moles are monophyletic. In contrast, fossorial Eurasian genera (Talpa, Mogera and Euroscaptor) were consistently found to form a monophyletic clade, with Mogera and Euroscaptor representing sister taxa. Furthermore, this fossorial clade grouped with the semi-aquatic Desmana, although with fairly low (35-62%) bootstrap support. Mogera imaizumii was found to be more closely related to M. wogura than to M. tokudae. This implies that the ancestors of these three species entered Japan from the Asian continent in this order via a series of migration events, suggesting that the Japanese Islands have played an important role in preserving mole lineages from ancient to recent times.	2004	21	10.2108/zsj.21.1177
Tzeneva, VA; Li, YG; Felske, ADM; de Vos, WM; Akkermans, ADL; Vaughan, EE; Smidt, H	Development and application of a selective PCR-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis approach to detect a recently cultivated Bacillus group predominant in soil	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	The worldwide presence of a hitherto-nondescribed group of predominant soil microorganisms related to Bacillus benzoevorans was analyzed after development of two sets of selective primers targeting 16S rRNA genes in combination with denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE). The high abundance and cultivability of at least some of these microorganisms makes them an appropriate subject for studies on their biogeographical dissemination and diversity. Since cultivability can vary significantly with the physiological state and even between closely related strains, we developed a culture-independent 16S rRNA gene-targeted DGGE fingerprinting protocol for the detection of these bacteria from soil samples. The composition of the B. benzoevorans relatives in the soil samples from The Netherlands, Bulgaria, Russia, Pakistan, and Portugal showed remarkable differences between the different countries. Differences in the DGGE profiles of these communities in archived soil samples from the Dutch Wieringermeer polder were observed over time during which a shift from anaerobic to aerobic and from saline to freshwater conditions occurred. To complement the molecular methods, we additionally cultivated B. benzoevorans-related strains from all of the soil samples. The highest number of B. benzoevorans relatives was found in the soils from the northern part of The Netherlands. The present study contributes to our knowledge of the diversity and abundance of this interesting group of microbes in soils throughout the world.	2004	70	10.1128/AEM.70.10.5801-5809.2004
Blum, LK; Roberts, MS; Garland, JL; Mills, AL	Distribution of microbial communities associated with the dominant high marsh plants and sediments of the United States east coast	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Microbial communities in the sediment and associated with the dominant type of standing dead plant were collected from the high marsh zones of 10 sites along the eastern coast of the United States from Maine to Florida. Microbial community composition was examined using T-RFLP, and bacterial and fungal abundance was determined microscopically. Within the sediment, community composition was strongly correlated with latitude, indicating that biogeographical factors are important determinants of sediment community composition, whereas abundance was positively and strongly correlated with sediment organic matter content. A strong biogeographical effect was observed for both bacterial and fungal abundance on standing dead plants, but there was no clear relationship between community composition and latitude. Microbial community composition was more similar among plants of the same type (i.e., related plant species) suggesting that plant type (i.e., substrate quality) is primarily responsible for the determining community composition on standing dead plants.	2004	48	10.1007/s00248-003-1051-6
He, JS; Wang, ZQ; Fang, JY	Issues and prospects of belowground ecology with special reference to global climate change	CHINESE SCIENCE BULLETIN	The theory of ecology is based on over 100 a of research and investigation, all centered on aboveground patterns and processes. However, as contemporary ecologists are increasingly acknowledging, belowground structures, functions, and processes are some of the most poorly understood areas in ecology. This lack of understanding of belowground ecological processes seriously restricts the advance of global change research. The interdisciplinary field of belowground ecology began to flourish in the 1990s, along with the expansion of global change research, and quickly gained momentum. Belowground ecology aims to investigate belowground structures, functions, and processes, as well as their relationships with corresponding aboveground features, emphasizing the responses of belowground systems under global change conditions. Key research areas include root ecology, belowground animals, and soil microorganisms. This review summarizes and analyzes the relationships between above-and belowground ecosystems, root ecology, root biogeography, belowground biodiversity, as well as research areas with particular challenges and progress. This commentary emphasizes certain theoretical issues concerning the responses of belowground processes to global change, and concludes that belowground ecology is a critical research priority in the 21st century.	2004	49	10.1360/03wd0558
Glaeser, J; Overmann, J	Biogeography, evolution, and diversity of epibionts in phototrophic consortia	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Motile phototrophic consortia are highly regular associations in which numerous cells of green sulfur bacteria surround a flagellated colorless beta-proteobacterium in the center. To date, seven different morphological types of such consortia have been described. In addition, two immotile associations involving green sulfur bacteria are known. By employing a culture-independent approach, different types of phototrophic consortia were mechanically isolated by micromanipulation from 14 freshwater environments, and partial 16S rRNA gene sequences of the green sulfur bacterial epibionts were determined. In the majority of the lakes investigated, different types of phototrophic consortia were found to co-occur. In all cases, phototrophic consortia with the same morphology from the same habitat contained only a single epibiont phylotype. However, morphologically indistinguishable phototrophic consortia collected from different lakes contained different epibionts. Overall, 19 different types of epibionts were detected in the present study. Whereas the epibionts within one geographic region were very similar (Dice coefficient, 0.582), only two types of epibionts were found to occur on both the European and North American continents (Dice coefficient, 0.190). None or the epibiont 16S rRNA gene sequences have been detected so far in free-living green sulfur bacteria, suggesting that the interaction between epibionts and chemotrophic bacteria in the phototrophic consortia is an obligate interaction. Based on our phylogenetic analysis, the epibiont sequences are not monophyletic. Thus, the ability to form symbiotic associations either arose independently from different ancestors or was present in a common ancestor prior to the radiation of green sulfur bacteria and the transition to the free-living state in independent lineages. The present study thus demonstrates that there is great diversity and nonrandom geographical distribution of phototrophic consortia in the natural environment.	2004	70	10.1128/AEM.70.8.4821-4830.2004
Jaspers, E; Overmann, J	Ecological significance of microdiversity: Identical 16S rRNA gene sequences can be found in bacteria with highly divergent genomes and ecophysiologies	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	A combination of cultivation-based methods with a molecular biological approach was used to investigate whether planktonic bacteria with identical 16S rRNA gene sequences can represent distinct eco- and genotypes. A set of 11 strains of Brevundimonas alba were isolated from a bacterial freshwater community by conventional plating or by using a liquid most-probable-number (MPN) dilution series. These strains had identical 16S rRNA gene sequences and represented the dominant phylotype in the plateable fraction, as well as in the highest positive dilutions of the MPN series. However, internally transcribed spacer and enterobacterial repetitive intergenic consensus PCR fingerprinting analyses, as well as DNA-DNA hybridization analyses, revealed great genetic diversity among the 11 strains. Each strain utilized a specific combination of 59 carbon substrates, and the niche overlap indices were low, suggesting that each strain occupied a different ecological niche. In dialysis cultures incubated in situ, each strain had a different growth rate and cell yield. We thus demonstrated that the B. alba strains represent distinct populations with genetically determined adaptations and probably occupy different ecological niches. Our results have implications for assessment of the diversity and biogeography of bacteria and increase the perception of natural diversity beyond the level of 16S rRNA gene sequences.	2004	70	10.1128/AEM.70.8.4831-4839.2004
Acinas, SG; Klepac-Ceraj, V; Hunt, DE; Pharino, C; Ceraj, I; Distel, DL; Polz, MF	Fine-scale phylogenetic architecture of a complex bacterial community	NATURE	Although molecular data have revealed the vast scope of microbial diversity(1), two fundamental questions remain unanswered even for well-defined natural microbial communities: how many bacterial types co-exist, and are such types naturally organized into phylogenetically discrete units of potential ecological significance? It has been argued that without such information, the environmental function, population biology and biogeography of microorganisms cannot be rigorously explored(2). Here we address these questions by comprehensive sampling of two large 16S ribosomal RNA clone libraries from a coastal bacterioplankton community. We show that compensation for artefacts generated by common library construction techniques reveals fine-scale patterns of community composition. At least 516 ribotypes ( unique rRNA sequences) were detected in the sample and, by statistical extrapolation, at least 1,633 co-existing ribotypes in the sampled population. More than 50% of the ribotypes fall into discrete clusters containing less than 1% sequence divergence. This pattern cannot be accounted for by interoperon variation, indicating a large predominance of closely related taxa in this community. We propose that such microdiverse clusters arise by selective sweeps and persist because competitive mechanisms are too weak to purge diversity from within them.	2004	430	10.1038/nature02649
Breitbart, M; Miyake, JH; Rohwer, F	Global distribution of nearly identical phage-encoded DNA sequences	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY LETTERS	Phages, the most abundant biological entities on the planet, play important roles in biogeochemical cycling, horizontal gene transfer, and defining microbial community composition. However, very little is known about phage diversity or biogeography, and there has not yet been a systematic effort to compare the phages found in different ecosystems. Here, we report that T7-like Podophage DNA polymerase sequences occur in every major biome investigated, including marine, freshwater, sediment, terrestrial, extreme, and metazoan-associated. The majority of these sequences belong to a unique clade that is only distantly related to cultured isolates. Some identical T7-like phage-encoded DNA polymerase genes from this clade were >99% conserved at the nucleotide level in multiple different environments, suggesting that these phages are moving between biomes in recent evolutionary time and that the global genomic pool for T7-like phages may be smaller than previously hypothesized. (C) 2004 Federation of European Microbiological Societies. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2004	236	10.1016/j.femsle.2004.05.042
Bowman, JP	Psychrophilic prokaryote structural-functional relationships, biogeography and evolution within marine sediment	CELLULAR AND MOLECULAR BIOLOGY	Prokaryote diversity has been found to be surprisingly high in cold marine sediments with numerous clades detected spread throughout many phyla. Marine benthic sediment clades are largely ecotypically distinct and autochthonous. Since almost all marine sediment prokaryotic taxa have yet to be cultivated, functionality is currently overwhelmingly cryptic for most benthic prokaryotic taxa except those falling into specific lineages for which there is cultivation or detailed biogeochemical data. Multivariate statistical comparisons of 16S rRNA gene sequence and denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) data show distinct distribution patterns of prokaryotic communities in sediment layers. By comparison geographical differences and differences related to the physical texture and organic content seem to result in generally smaller differences.	2004	50	
Ferreira, CEL; Floeter, SR; Gasparini, JL; Ferreira, BP; Joyeux, JC	Trophic structure patterns of Brazilian reef fishes: a latitudinal comparison	JOURNAL OF BIOGEOGRAPHY	Aim To investigate how reef fish trophic structure responds to latitudinal changes, using a simple model: the extensive Brazilian coast. Location Six Brazilian tropical and subtropical coral and rocky coastal reefs, and the oceanic island of Atol das Rocas, between latitudes 0degrees and 27degrees S. Methods Underwater visual census data collected by the authors (five locations) or obtained from the literature (two locations) were used to estimate the relative abundance of 123 fish species belonging to 33 reef-associated families. Cryptic species were excluded from the analysis. Fishes were grouped in eight trophic categories: roving herbivores, territorial herbivores, mobile invertebrate feeders, sessile invertebrate feeders, omnivores, planktivores, piscivores and carnivores. After a series of detailed predictions based on phylogeny, physiological constraints and anthropogenic impacts was established, the community trophic structure was analysed along a latitudinal gradient and among coastal, mid-shore and oceanic sites. Results The trophic structure of Brazilian reef fish assemblages clearly changed with latitude. Roving herbivores such as scarids and acanthurids were proportionally more abundant at low latitudes. The browsing herbivores kyphosids followed an opposite latitudinal pattern. The parrotfish genus Sparisoma, more plastic in its feeding habits than Scarus, presented wider distribution. The relative abundance of territorial herbivores did not decrease towards higher latitudes. Mobile invertebrate feeders were the most important (in low latitudes) or the second most important trophic guild (in high latitudes) at all coastal sites. Sessile invertebrate feeders did not show any clear latitudinal trend, despite an expected increase in abundance towards low latitudes. Omnivores dominated high latitude reefs (27degrees S) and planktivores the oceanic island Atol das Rocas. Piscivores and carnivores were proportionally better represented in high latitudes. Main conclusions Latitudinal patterns seem to be influenced by phylogeny, physiological constraints (mainly related to temperature), and also by anthropogenic impacts. Grazing scarids and acanthurids are largely restricted to tropical reefs and show an abrupt decline beyond 23degrees S. This does not reflect the amount of algae present, but probably temperature-dependent physiological constraints. Other herbivores seem to overcome this through symbiotic microbial digestive processes (kyphosids), manipulating the structure of algal turfs or increasing animal protein from within the territory (pomacentrids). Omnivores dominate the southern sites Arraial do Cabo and Arvoredo, being more adapted to environment constraints related to seasonal and/or stochastic shifts. Large carnivores (including piscivores) extend farther into high-latitude habitats, apparently not constrained by thermal thresholds that limit the herbivores. Overfishing and/or ornamental harvesting certainly has been modifying local fish communities, but could not be detected properly at the large-scale patterns found in this study. The data presented put in evidence for the first time how reef fish trophic structure behave in the extensive south-western Atlantic latitudinal gradient.	2004	31	10.1111/j.1365-2699.2004.01044.x
Jones, BW; Nishiguchi, MK	Counterillumination in the hawaiian bobtail squid, Euprymna scolopes Berry (Mollusca : Cephalopoda)	MARINE BIOLOGY	The mutualism between the Hawaiian bobtail squid Euprymna scolopes and the luminescent symbiont Vibrio fischeri has been used extensively as a model system for studies ranging from co-speciation and biogeography to gene regulation and the evolution of pathogenesis. In this association, the luminescent bacterium V. fischeri is housed in a complex light organ within the mantle cavity of E. scolopes. Prior hypotheses have assumed that sepiolid squids in general utilize the bioluminescence produced by their V. fischeri symbionts for counterillumination, a behavior that helps squid camouflage themselves by matching down-welling moonlight via silhouette reduction. This assumption, based solely on the morphology of the squid light organ, has never been empirically tested for Euprymna in the laboratory. Here, we present data demonstrating that E. scolopes can modify the intensity of light produced by V. fischeri in the light organ as down-welling light intensity changes. Bacterial bioluminescence from the light organ is directly correlated with down-welling light intensity, suggesting that E. scolopes individuals utilize and control V. fischeri luminescence for counterillumination.	2004	144	10.1007/s00227-003-1285-3
Grundmann, GL	Spatial scales of soil bacterial diversity - the size of a clone	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	The spatial distribution of the tremendous bacterial diversity in soil partially depends on the broad range of scales of soil physical structures and the size of bacteria. The aim of this article is to collect information on spatial distribution of bacteria, the genetic structure of bacterial populations and communities, and on spatial constraints that operate in soil. This has been addressed by studying the spatial pattern of micro-habitats for various bacterial types and the spatial spread of clones in soil environment. The clones were considered as the units of genetic population structure. Experimental findings from a number of studies provide evidence that in soils a clone and a micro-colony are not necessarily identical. For some bacterial types, members of the same clone have been found far apart. Besides, micro-colonies of a few cells have also been reported. Short-range cell movements seem to be common in soil, in agreement with the observation of high small-scale diversity (millimetre scale). The mechanisms for the spread of clones are complex and probably operate at different spatial scales, even for soil bacteria with no specific vectors. The hypothesis underlying the study of the spatial dimension of diversity is that it can reveal mechanisms of diversity maintenance and contribute to their evaluation, complementing available knowledge of genetic processes. (C) 2004 Federation of European Microbiological Societies. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2004	48	10.1016/j.femsec.2004.01.010
Vivanco, JM; Bais, HP; Stermitz, FR; Thelen, GC; Callaway, RM	Biogeographical variation in community response to root allelochemistry: novel weapons and exotic invasion	ECOLOGY LETTERS	Centaurea diffusa is one of the most destructive invasive weeds in the western USA and allelopathy appears to contribute to its invasiveness (Callaway & Aschehoug 2000). Here we identify a chemical from the root exudates of C. diffusa, 8-hydroxyquinoline, not previously reported as a natural product, and find that it varies biogeographically in its natural concentration and its effect as an allelochemical. 8-Hydroxyquinoline is at least three times more concentrated in C. diffusa-invaded North American soils than in this weeds native Eurasian soils and has stronger phytotoxic effects on grass species from North America than on grass species from Eurasia. Furthermore, experimental communities built from North American plant species are far more susceptible to invasion by C. diffusa than communities built from Eurasian species, regardless of the biogeographical origin of the soil biota. Sterilization of North American soils suppressed C. diffusa more than sterilization of Eurasian soils, indicating that North American soil biota may also promote invasion by C. diffusa. Eurasian plants and soil microbes may have evolved natural resistance to 8-hydroxyquinoline while North American plants have not, suggesting a remarkable potential for evolutionary compatibility and homeostasis among plants within natural communities and a mechanism by which exotic weeds destroy these communities.	2004	7	10.1111/j.1461-0248.2004.00576.x
Crump, BC; Hopkinson, CS; Sogin, ML; Hobbie, JE	Microbial biogeography along an estuarine salinity gradient: Combined influences of bacterial growth and residence time	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Shifts in bacterioplankton community composition along the salinity gradient of the Parker River estuary and Plum Island Sound, in northeastern Massachusetts, were related to residence time and bacterial community doubling time in spring, summer, and fall seasons. Bacterial community composition was characterized with denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) of PCR-amplified 16S ribosomal DNA. Average community doubling time was calculated from bacterial production ([C-14] leucine incorporation) and bacterial abundance (direct counts). Freshwater and marine populations advected into the estuary represented a large fraction of the bacterioplankton community in all seasons. However, a unique estuarine community formed at intermediate salinities in summer and fall, when average doubling time was much shorter than water residence time, but not in spring, when doubling time was similar to residence time. Sequencing of DNA in DGGE bands demonstrated that most bands represented single phylotypes and that matching bands from different samples represented identical phylotypes. Most river and coastal ocean bacterioplankton were members of common freshwater and marine phylogenetic clusters within the phyla Proteobacteria, Bacteroidetes, and Actinobacteria. Estuarine bacterioplankton also belonged to these phyla but were related to clones and isolates from several different environments, including marine water columns, freshwater sediments, and soil.	2004	70	10.1128/AEM.70.3.1494-1505.2004
Etges, WJ; Levitan, M	Palaeoclimatic variation, adaptation and biogeography of inversion polymorphisms in natural populations of Drosophila robusta	BIOLOGICAL JOURNAL OF THE LINNEAN SOCIETY	Studies of natural and sexual selection in wild populations of Drosophila have historically provided strong inference for the maintenance of inversion polymorphism. Analysis of geographical variation in the Drosophila robusta chromosomal data collected over more than 50 years from 133 natural populations across eastern North America has confirmed several north-south and east-west clines in the frequencies of some gene arrangements and linked arrangement combinations. Patterns of geographical variation, including several north-south clines, revealed by regression and spatial autocorrelation analyses are concordant with palaeoclimatic shifts, Pleistocene glaciations and historical changes in the composition of North American forest communities. Because D. robusta is a sapbreeder, using the microbe-infested sap exudates of a number of deciduous tree species in which they carry out their life cycle, shifts in climate and palaeovegetation types since the formation of the eastern deciduous forests in the Miocene are hypothesized to be major factors influencing patterns of inversion polymorphisms across the range of this drosophilid species. In areas where sharp deviations in frequencies have been observed, particularly in the midwestern and western portions of the range, these divisions parallel historical geographical disjunctions in the species range that have yet to promote divergence and species formation despite the long history of D. robusta in North America. (C) 2004 The Linnean Society of London,	2004	81	10.1111/j.1095-8312.2004.00306.x
Parker, MA; Doyle, JL; Doyle, JJ	Comparative phylogeography of Amphicarpaea legumes and their root-nodule symbionts in Japan and North America	JOURNAL OF BIOGEOGRAPHY	Aim Relationships of eastern Asian and eastern North American populations of legumes in the genus Amphicarpaea Elliot ex. Nuttall (Phaseoleae-Glycininae) and their root nodule bacteria (Bradyrhizobium Jordan) were analysed to test whether both organisms share an identical biogeographic history. Location Japan and eastern North America (New York and Illinois). Methods Sequences of three plant genes (chloroplast trnL region, nuclear ribosomal ITS, and histone H3-D) and a segment of the bacterial ribosomal region (partial 16S rRNA and 23S rRNA genes, and the 16S rRNA-23S rRNA ITS) were used to analyse phylogenetic relationships. Results For plants, Japanese populations formed a sister group to a well-supported clade of all North American genotypes. For nodule bacteria associated with Amphicarpaea, isolates from North America did not form a single clade relative to Asian genotypes. Japanese Bradyrhizobium isolates were closely related to particular sub-groups of North American bacteria (lineages B and C), with other American bacteria branching earlier. Main conclusions Plants and bacteria showed clear deviations from a pattern of parallel cladogenesis. The most basal Amphicarpaea lineage was associated with a recently-diverged bacterial group, while one recently-diverged plant lineage had symbionts that branched in a basal position relative to the other Amphicarpaea bacteria. When analysed with data on symbiotic compatibility from inoculation experiments, the molecular phylogenies suggested that for plants, at least one transition has occurred toward more promiscuous nodulation behaviour. Among bacteria, strains with narrow host range on Amphicarpaea appear to be ancestral to symbiotic generalists.	2004	31	
Berlinck, RGS; Hajdu, E; da Rocha, RM; de Oliveira, JHHL; Hernandez, ILC; Seleghim, MHR; Granato, AC; de Almeida, EVR; Nunez, CV; Muricy, G; Peixinho, S; Pessoa, C; Moraes, MO; Cavalcanti, BC; Nascimento, GGF; Thiemann, O; Silva, M; Souza, AO; Silva, CL; Minarini, PRR	Challenges and rewards of research in marine natural products chemistry in Brazil	JOURNAL OF NATURAL PRODUCTS	Brazil is blessed with a great biodiversity, which constitutes one of the most important sources of biologically active compounds, even if it has been largely underexplored. As is the case of the Amazon and Atlantic rainforests, the Brazilian marine fauna remains practically unexplored in the search for new biologically active natural products. Considering that marine organisms have been shown to be one of the most promising sources of new bioactive compounds for the treatment of different human diseases, the 8000 km of the Brazilian coastline represents a great potential for finding new pharmacologically active secondary metabolites. This review presents the status of marine natural products chemistry in Brazil, including results reported by different research groups with emphasis on the isolation, structure elucidation, and evaluation of biological activities of natural products isolated from sponges, ascidians, octocorals, and Opistobranch mollusks. A brief overview of the first Brazilian program on the isolation of marine bacteria and fungi, directed toward the production of biologically active compounds, is also discussed. The current multidisciplinary collaborative program under development at the Universidade de Sao Paulo proposes to establish a new paradigm toward the management of the Brazilian marine biodiversity, integrating research on the species diversity, ecology, taxonomy, and biogeography of marine invertebrates and microorganisms. This program also includes a broad screening program of Brazilian marine bioresources, to search for active compounds that may be of interest for the development of new drug leads.	2004	67	10.1021/np0304316
Grazhdankin, D	Patterns of distribution in the Ediacaran biotas: facies versus biogeography and evolution	PALEOBIOLOGY	The siliciclastic succession of the late Neoproterozoic Vendian Group in the White Sea area demonstrates a wide range of lithofacies, some recurring in a vertical succession. Significantly, each lithofacies contains a distinct assemblage of Ediacaran fossils that represents in situ benthic paleocommunities smothered in life position. These lithofacies define (1) a monospecific Maria assemblage, restricted to the lower-shoreface muds; (2) a Charnia assemblage, within the middle-shoreface graded siltstone-shale couplets; (3) a Dickinsonia-Kimberella assemblage, confined to the interstratified sandstone and shale of prodelta; and (4) a Onegia-Rangea assemblage, preserved within channelized sandstone beds of the distributary-mouth bar. In the White Sea area a strong correlation exists between taxonomic composition, biostratinomic features, and paleoecological context of the Ediacaran fossil assemblages. Facies-controlled distribution is also evident in other Ediacaran localities, demonstrating the recurrence of similar facies relationships on a global scale. This pattern is interpreted as representing Ediacaran biofacies with Avalon-type biotas distributed in deep marine habitats, Ediacara-type biotas inhabiting microbial biofilms in shallow marine prodeltaic settings, and infaunal Nama-type biotas found in distributary-mouth bar shoals. This in turn reveals a marked degree of environmental sensitivity and ecological specialization. Correspondence between depositional environment and taxonomic composition speaks against any obvious biogeographic provinciality of the Ediacaran biotas, and also casts doubt on claims of substantial evolutionary change.	2004	30	10.1666/0094-8373(2004)030<0203:PODITE>2.0.CO;2
Selje, N; Simon, M; Brinkhoff, T	A newly discovered Roseobacter cluster in temperate and polar oceans	NATURE	Bacterioplankton phylotypes of alpha-Proteobacteria have been detected in various marine regions, but systematic biogeographical studies of their global distribution are missing. alpha-Proteobacteria comprise one of the largest fractions of heterotrophic marine bacteria(1,2) and include two clades, SAR11 and Roseobacter, which account for 26 and 16% of 16S ribosomal RNA gene clones retrieved from marine bacterioplankton(3). The SAR11 clade attracted much interest because related 16S rRNA gene clones were among the first groups of marine bacteria to be identified by cultivation-independent approaches(4) and appear to dominate subtropical surface bacterioplankton communities(5). Here we report on the global distribution of a newly discovered cluster affiliated to the Roseobacter clade, comprising only as-yet-uncultured phylotypes. Bacteria of this cluster occur from temperate to polar regions with highest abundance in the Southern Ocean, but not in tropical and subtropical regions. Between the south Atlantic subtropical front and Antarctica, we detected two distinct phylotypes, one north and one south of the polar front, indicating that two adjacent but different oceanic provinces allow the persistence of distinct but closely related phylotypes. These results suggest that the global distribution of major marine bacterioplankton components is related to oceanic water masses and controlled by their environmental and biogeochemical properties.	2004	427	10.1038/nature02272
Horner-Devine, MC; Carney, KM; Bohannan, BJM	An ecological perspective on bacterial biodiversity	PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY B-BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES	Bacteria may be one of the most abundant and species-rich groups of organisms, and they mediate many critical ecosystem processes. Despite the ecological importance of bacteria, past practical and theoretical constraints have limited our ability to document patterns of bacterial diversity and to understand the processes that determine these patterns. However, recent advances in molecular techniques that allow more thorough detection of bacteria in nature have made it possible to examine such patterns and processes. Here, we review recent studies of the distribution of free-living bacterial diversity and compare our current understanding with what is known about patterns in plant and animal diversity. From these recent studies a preliminary picture is emerging: bacterial diversity may exhibit regular patterns, and in some cases these patterns may be qualitatively similar to those observed for plants and animals.	2004	271	10.1098/rspb.2003.2549
Yannarell, AC; Triplett, EW	Within- and between-lake variability in the composition of bacterioplankton communities: Investigations using multiple spatial scales	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	This study examined the similarity of epilimnetic bacterial community composition (BCC) across several within- and among-lake spatial scales, and the environmental factors giving rise to similar bacterial communities in different lakes were also explored. Samples were collected from 13 northern and southern Wisconsin lakes representing gradients in lake size, productivity, dissolved organic carbon and humic acid contents, and pH. Hypotheses regarding patchy distribution of bacterial communities in lakes were tested by comparing samples collected from nearby (tens of meters) and distant (hundreds of meters) sampling sites in the same lake. BCC was characterized by using a molecular fingerprinting technique, automated ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis (ARISA). Overall, samples collected at the 10-m, 100-m, and between-lake scales differed by 13, 17, and 75% respectively. Variation at these last two scales was significant. The development of within-lake variation in BCC appeared to depend on the isolation of water by lake shoreline features such as bays or narrow constrictions. ARISA profiles from northern lakes had fewer peaks and were less similar to each other than were those of the southern lakes, suggesting that regional features do not necessarily lead to the development of similar bacterial communities. Lakes at similar positions on productivity and dissolved organic carbon concentration gradients had similar bacterial communities, and bacterial diversity was positively correlated with lake productivity and water temperature. Factorial studies taking into account these gradients, as well as regional spatial scales, should provide much insight into the nature of aquatic bacterial biogeography.	2004	70	10.1128/AEM.70.1.214-223.2004
Vinuesa, P; Silva, C	Species delineation and biogeography of symbiotic bacteria associated with cultivated and wild legumes	BIOLOGICAL RESOURCES AND MIGRATION	Here, we review key issues in bacterial population genetics and evolutionary biology pertinent to the controversial topics of bacterial species concepts and bacterial biogeography. We present a summary of our results and working hypotheses on the latter topics, based on our population genetic and molecular phylogenetic analyses of diverse populations of rhizobial microsymbionts associated with cultivated and wild legumes. This contribution describes our current understanding and thoughts on the biogeography and nature of rhizobial species associated with (1) common beans (Phaseolus vulgaris, L.), one of the major grain legume crops worldwide, and (2) with wild genistoid legumes from the Canary Islands, Morocco, and continental Spain.	2004		
De Vargas, C; Saez, AG; Medlin, LK; Thierstein, HR	Super-species in the calcareous plankton	COCCOLITHOPHORES: FROM MOLECULAR PROCESSES TO GLOBAL IMPACT	The most successful groups of pelagic protists in the modem Ocean have evolved convergent phenotypic traits, including the presence of hard skeletons enclosing the cell. These micro-skeletons - tests, coccoliths, frustules, theca - have accumulated kilometers of deep-sea sediments since the Jurassic, the most complete and continuous fossil record widely used for reconstructing Earth systems dynamics and microbial evolution. The use of the traditional morphological species concepts in those groups indicates that the relatively few species living at a given time have huge, often circum-global biogeographic distributions, and commonly last for many million years in the sediment record, which contrasts with the hectic biological pace of life occurring in the oceanic water masses, leading to one of the highest organismic turnover that any ecosystem sustains. Here we review all recent genetic data on coccolithophore and foraminifer biodiversity. In both groups, the sequencing of various genes shows that the morphological species are in fact monophyletic assemblages of sibling species which diverged several million years ago according to molecular clock calculations. Furthermore the sibling species within a morphological entity may systematically occupy restricted geographic or temporal allopatric subdivisions of the total ecological range attributed to the traditional morphospecies. They display also stable and subtle - despite million years of genetic isolation - morphological differences that have been previously overlooked or interpreted as ecophenotypic variations. Obviously, various selective forces related to life in the marine planktic realm impose a strong stabilizing selection on pelagic organisms that maintains optimal phenotypes through the origination and possibly extinction of sibling species. We propose that this mode of evolution is characteristic of most marine planktic taxa, including metazoans, and we introduce a concept of planktic super-species to describe these constrained morphological monophyletic entities that include several sibling species adapted to different ecological niches. Two different evolutionary models displaying different degrees of complexity in the spatio-temporal disconnection between morphological and genetic/ecologic differentiations are discussed in the frame of the existing morphometric and DNA data sets. The design of experimental protocols at the boundary between molecular phylogenetics and micropaleontology will be a necessary condition to test which of our models reflect the real world. This will be also a crucial step to reveal the full potential of microfossil applications in paleoecology and stratigraphy, and to understand, at the level at which adaptation and selection operate, how pelagic biodiversity reacted to climatic changes in the past oceans and how it may react to the severe warming events projected in the near future.	2004		
Caron, DA; Countway, PD; Brown, MV	The growing contributions of molecular biology and immunology to protistan ecology: Molecular signatures as ecological tools	JOURNAL OF EUKARYOTIC MICROBIOLOGY	Modern genetic and immunological techniques have become important tools for assessing protistan species diversity for both the identification and quantification of specific taxa in natural microbial communities. Although these methods are still gaining use among ecologists, the new approaches have already had a significant impact on our understanding of protistan diversity and biogeography. For example, genetic studies of environmental samples have uncovered many protistan phylotypes that do not match the DNA sequences of any cultured organisms, and whose morphological identities are unknown at the present time. Additionally, rapid and sensitive methods for detecting and enumerating taxa of special importance (e.g. bloom-forming algae, parasitic protists) have enabled much more detailed distributional and experimental studies than have been possible using traditional methods. Nevertheless, while the application of molecular approaches has advanced some aspects of aquatic protistan ecology, significant issues still thwart the widespread adoption of these approaches. These issues include the highly technical nature of some of the molecular methods, the reconciliation of morphology-based and sequence-based species identifications, and the species concept itself.	2004	51	10.1111/j.1550-7408.2004.tb00159.x
Nikitenko, BL; Mickey, MB	Foraminifera and ostracodes across the Pliensbachian-Toarcian boundary in the Arctic Realm (stratigraphy, palaeobiogeography and biofacies)	PALYNOLOGY AND MICROPALAEONTOLOGY OF BOUNDARIES	The analysis of samples from numerous Pliensbachian and Toarcian sections from the northern regions of Russia and northern Alaska, as well as published data, allow us to estimate the correlative significance of foraminifera and ostracodes, and to develop an Arctic zonal standard based on these microfauna. During the Late Pliensbachian-Early Toarcian depositional period in the Arctic Basin and northwestern seas of Western Europe, a succession of almost simultaneous biotic and abiotic events occurred: widespread development of black bituminous shale at the beginning of the Early Toarcian, and a microbiota crisis (mass extinction event) in the Northern Hemisphere. The Early Toarcian microbiotic crisis was very sharp in both Arctic and Western European palaeobasins. In the Arctic seas, the generic and family composition of ostracode communities was completely replaced by new taxa. The species composition of foraminiferal assemblages changed considerably, while the generic composition of the foraminifera is only characterized by partial changes. In the Western European seas, the Early Toarcian microbenthos crisis caused taxonomic changes generally at the species level among foraminifera and at the generic level among ostracodes. The comprehensive analysis of the biogeographical distribution of Late Pliensbachian and Early Toarcian foraminifera and ostracodes, as well as Jaccard cluster analysis, allow us to define several biogeographical units within the Arctic and Boreal-Atlantic realms. A pattern of ecological distribution of microbenthos in bathymetric zones in Siberian palaeobasins has been developed, providing the basis for palaeoenvironmental reconstructions.	2004	230	10.1144/GSL.SP.2004.230.01.08
Edwards, MH; Coakley, BJ	SCICEX investigations of the Arctic Ocean system	CHEMIE DER ERDE-GEOCHEMISTRY	In 1993 the United States Navy and the marine research community embarked on an ambitious program to study the Arctic Ocean using nuclear-powered submarines. The program, termed SCience ICe EXercise (SCICEX), was designed to simultaneously sample and map the ice canopy, physical, chemical, and biological water properties, seafloor and seabed subsurface. The small size of the Arctic Basin relative to Earths other oceans and the unique capabilities of the nuclear submarines, high speed coupled with the ability to operate independently of the sea ice cover, combined to allow the first holistic investigation of an entire ocean basin. The data acquired during eight submarine cruises helped refine hypotheses and models for the broad spectrum of subdisciplines that comprise arctic science and, perhaps more importantly, illuminated the linkages between the various components of the Arctic Ocean system. This paper presents an overview of the SCICEX program, summarizing the results published to date and briefly describing each submarine deployment and the instruments used to acquire various datasets, to demonstrate the important contribution of this collaborative venture to arctic science.	2003	63	10.1078/0009-2819-00039
Alve, E; Goldstein, ST	Propagule transport as a key method of dispersal in benthic foraminifera (Protista)	LIMNOLOGY AND OCEANOGRAPHY	The distributional patterns of benthic foraminifera provide key information for paleoclimatic, paleoecologic, and paleoceanographic studies. Yet the dispersal mechanisms that provide a crucial link between local populations and large-scale biogeographic patterns are not well documented. We experimentally demonstrate the dispersal of propgules, which include both sexually and asexually produced young (perhaps only the proloculus), though the sexually produced young appear to have a greater potential for dispersal. The propagules can rest in a cryptic state for months, constitute a substantial bank of individuals in sediments from water depths beyond the natural distribution of conspecific adults, and grow in these sediments when exposed to favorable conditions. Propagule dispersal probably provides an effective mechanism for colonization of widely separated habitats in a fashion broadly similar to other eukaryotic microbial groups and many groups of marine invertebrates.	2003	48	
Lachance, MA; Bowles, JM; Starmer, WT	Geography and niche occupancy as determinants of yeast biodiversity: the yeast-insect-morning glory ecosystem of Kipuka Puaulu, Hawaii	FEMS YEAST RESEARCH	Biodiversity theory proposes two types of hypotheses to account for the species composition of a given community. The first encompasses geographic and historical factors. For example, local species richness is thought to be affected by area, proximity to large landmasses,. dispersal mechanisms, and climatic history, collectively known as biogeography. The second type, termed niche occupancy rules, deals with the intrinsic properties of the species as they affect their interaction with the habitat and with other members of the community. The yeast-insect-morning glory ecosystem is a good model to explore biodiversity theory in ascomycetous yeasts. Here we focus on beetles that breed or feed in morning glories and a group of ascomycetous yeasts that are associated exclusively with them. Specifically, we analyse the community found in the vicinity of K1puka Puaulu, a small patch of disturbed but mature forest situated amidst lava flows on the island of Hawaii. Major members of the yeast community include Metschnikowia hawaiiensis, Metschnikowia lochheadii, and the related asexual species Candida ipomoeae and Candida kipukae. These species are nearly indistinguishable from one another in terms of nutritional requirements and abilities, although their phylogenetic range is enormous. Their distribution, both global and local, is far from random. As K1puka Puaulu is an island within an island, the principles of island biogeography may be invoked to explain some aspects of its yeast species composition. M. lochheadii, C. ipomoeae, and the rare species Candida hawaiiana are recent introductions from the American continent and therefore exotic, whereas M. hawaiiensis and C. kipukae might be regarded as endemic, as they are yet to be isolated elsewhere. Vectoring by certain nitidulid beetles explains the long-range dispersal of these species. However, niche occupancy rules may account in part for the local spatial distribution of the yeasts within the island of Hawaii and within the k1puka itself. We have identified the maximum growth temperature as a potentially critical property of the fundamental niche of these yeasts. (C) 2003 Federation of European Microbiological Societies. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2003	4	10.1016/S1567-1356(03)00149-1
Oda, Y; Star, B; Huisman, LA; Gottschal, JC; Forney, LJ	Biogeography of the purple nonsulfur bacterium Rhodopseudomonas palustris	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	The biogeography of the purple nonsulfur bacterium Rhodopseudomonas palustris on a local scale was investigated. Thirty clones of phototrophic bacteria were isolated from each of five unevenly spaced sampling locations in freshwater marsh sediments along a linear 10-m transect, and a total of 150 clones were characterized by BOX-PCR genomic DNA fingerprinting. Cluster analysis of 150 genomic fingerprints yielded 26 distinct genotypes, and 106 clones constituted four major genotypes that were repeatedly isolated. Representatives of these four major genotypes were tentatively identified as R. palustris based on phylogentic analyses of 16S rRNA gene sequences. The differences in the genomic fingerprint patterns among the four major genotypes were accompanied by differences in phenotypic characteristics. These phenotypic differences included differences in the kinetics of carbon source use, suggesting that there may be functional differences with possible ecological significance among these clonal linages. Morisita-Horn similarity coefficients (C-MH), which were used to compare the numbers of common genotypes found at pairs of sampling locations, showed that there was substantial similarity between locations that were 1 cm apart (C-MH, greater than or equal to0.95) but there was almost no similarity between locations that were greater than or equal to9 m apart (C-MH, less than or equal to0.25). These calculations showed there was a gradual decrease in similarity among the five locations as a function of distance and that clones of R. palustris were lognormally distributed along the linear 10-m transect. These data indicate that natural populations of R. palustris are assemblages of genetically distinct ecotypes and that the distribution of each ecotypes is patchy.	2003	69	10.1128/AEM.69.9.5186-5191.2003
Rosa, MEC; Olszevski, N; Mendonca, ES; Costa, LM; Correia, JR	Carbon forms of a Typic Eutroferric Red Latossol under no-tillage in a savanna biogeographic system	REVISTA BRASILEIRA DE CIENCIA DO SOLO	The objective of this study was to evaluate physical and chemical soil properties and organic carbon dynamics in a Typic Eutroferric Red Latossol under different land uses (no-till system, irrigated and non- irrigated crops, and native forest) in the savanna region of Santa Helena de Goias, Goias State, Brazil. Samples were collected from five soil layers (0.0-0.05, 0.05-0.10, 0.10-0.20, 0.20-0.30, and 0.30-0.40 m) and separated in aggregate size groups of above or below 0.25 mm. Chemical and physical analyses determined the total organic, mineralizable, microbial biomass, and water-soluble carbon, as well as the labile organic matter for soil characterization. The following conclusions were drawn: (a) carbon levels in the aggregates were lower in the no-till system compared to the soil under natural forest; (b) organic matter plays a relevant role in the genesis and stabilization of aggregates > 0.25 mm; (c) compared to the soil under natural forest, an increased soil compaction was evidenced in the no-till system by the porosity, resistance to penetrometer, and bulk density, (d) and soil density is a satisfactory variable to evaluate soil compaction of the Typic Eutrofic Red Latosol. Labile organic matter has the potential to be used in studies of clay dispersion and flocculation phenomena besides nutrient cycling.	2003	27	10.1590/S0100-06832003000500016
Fenchel, T	Biogeography for bacteria	SCIENCE		2003	301	10.1126/science.1089242
Whitaker, RJ; Grogan, DW; Taylor, JW	Geographic barriers isolate endemic populations of hyperthermophilic archaea	SCIENCE	Barriers to dispersal between populations allow them to diverge through local adaptation or random genetic drift. High-resolution multilocus sequence analysis revealed that, on a global scale, populations of hyperthermophilic microorganisms are isolated from one another by geographic barriers and have diverged over the course of their recent evolutionary history. The identification of a biogeographic pattern in the archaeon Sulfolobus challenges the current model of microbial biodiversity in which unrestricted dispersal constrains the development of global species richness.	2003	301	10.1126/science.1086909
Gardiner, SL; Hourdez, S	On the occurrence of the vestimentiferan tube worm Lamellibrachia luymesi van der Land and Norrevang, 1975 (Annelida : Pogonophora) in hydrocarbon seep communities in the Gulf of Mexico	PROCEEDINGS OF THE BIOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF WASHINGTON	Lamellibrachia luymesi van der Land & Norrevang, 1975 is recorded from shallow-water hydrocarbon seep communities along the Louisiana slope in the Gulf of Mexico. It is typically the most abundant tube worm species in these shallow-water communities, sometimes with individuals occurring in aggregations numbering in the thousands. Tubes extend deeply into the sediment, and apical portions may project above the sea floor a distance of one meter or greater. This study documents intraspecific variation for a number of important morphological features of L. luymesi, such as the number of sheath lamellae, the number of branchial lamellae, the length and width of the obturaculum and vestimentum, the ratio of obturacular length to vestimental length, the ratio of vestimental diameter to vestimental length, and features of the tube. Comparisons of these features are made with other species of Lamellibrachia. The record of L. luymesi on the Louisiana slope extends the geographic range of this species from the southern North Atlantic Ocean into the northern Gulf of Mexico.	2003	116	
Woody, ST; Spear, RN; Nordheim, EV; Ives, AR; Andrews, JH	Single-leaf resolution of the temporal population dynamics of Aureobasidium pullulans on apple leaves	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	The abundance of phylloplane microorganisms typically varies over several orders of magnitude among leaves sampled concurrently. Because the methods traditionally used to sample leaves are destructive, it has remained unclear whether this high variability is due to fixed differences in habitat quality among leaves or to asynchronous temporal variation in the microbial population density on individual leaves. We developed a novel semidestructive assay to repeatedly sample the same apple leaves from orchard trees over time by removing progressively more proximal similar to1-cm-wide transverse segments. Aureobasidium pullulans densities were determined by standard leaf homogenization and plating procedures and were expressed as CFU per square centimeter of segment. The A. pullulans population densities among leaves were lognormally distributed. The variability in A. pullulans population densities among subsections of a given leaf was one-third to one-ninth the variability among whole leaves harvested concurrently. Sequential harvesting of leaf segments did not result in detectable changes in A. pullulans density on residual leaf surfaces. These findings implied that we could infer whole-leaf A. pullulans densities over time by using partial leaves. When this successive sampling regimen was applied over the course of multiple 7- to 8-day experiments, the among-leaf effects were virtually always the predominant source of variance in A. pullulans density estimates. Changes in A. pullulans density tended to be synchronous among leaves, such that the rank order of leaves arrayed with respect to A. pullulans density was largely maintained through time. Occasional periods of asynchrony were observed, but idiosyncratic changes in A. pullulans density did not contribute appreciably to variation in the distribution of populations among leaves. This suggests that persistent differences in habitat (leaf) quality are primarily responsible for the variation in A. pullulans density among leaves in nature.	2003	69	10.1128/AEM.69.8.4892-4900.2003
Yamanaka, T; Mizota, C; Fujiwara, Y; Chiba, H; Hashimoto, J; Gamo, T; Okudaira, T	Sulphur-isotopic composition of the deep-sea mussel Bathymodiolus marisindicus from currently active hydrothermal vents in the Indian Ocean	JOURNAL OF THE MARINE BIOLOGICAL ASSOCIATION OF THE UNITED KINGDOM	Sulphur-isotopic composition of soft tissues from Bathymodiolus marisindicus collected from hydrothermal vents in the Indian Ocean was reported. The PS values of the soft tissues (+3similar to +5parts per thousand vs Canyon Diablo troilite) were nearly identical to those from the associated hydrothermal fluid and chimney sulphides (+5 to +8parts per thousand), but were significantly different from that of the common seawater sulphate (+21parts per thousand), which suggested that the endosymbiotic bacteria used sulphide in the fluid as an energy source. Transmission electron microscopic observation of the endosymbionts also suggested that the symbiont is a thioautotroph. Bathymodiolus species, which depend on either sulphide or methane oxidation, or both, have a worldwide distribution. Bathymodiolus marisindicus from the Indian Ocean has a close relationship with congeners in the Pacific Ocean as evidenced by form of symbiosis. Biogeography and migration of the genus Bathymodiolus based on the relevant data are briefly discussed.	2003	83	10.1017/S0025315403007872h
Amrine-Madsen, H; Scally, M; Westerman, M; Stanhope, MJ; Krajewski, C; Springer, MS	Nuclear gene sequences provide evidence for the monophyly of australidelphian marsupials	MOLECULAR PHYLOGENETICS AND EVOLUTION	Relationships among the seven extant orders of marsupials remain poorly understood. Most classifications recognize a fundamental split between Ameridelphia, which contains the American orders Didelphimorphia and Paucituberculata, and Australidelphia, which contains four Australasian orders (Dasyuromorphia, Diprotodontia, Notoryctemorphia, and Peramelina) and the South American order Microbiotheria, represented by Dromiciops gliroides. Ameridelphia and Australidelphia are each supported by key morphological characters with dichotomous character states. To date, molecular studies indexing all marsupial orders have reported inconclusive results. However, several studies have suggested that Dromiciops is nested within Australidelphia. This result has important implications for understanding the biogeographic history of living marsupials. To address questions in higher-level marsupial systematics, we sequenced portions of five nuclear genes (Apolipoprotein B gene; Breast and Ovarian cancer susceptibility gene 1; Recombination activating gene 1; Interphotoreceptor retinoid binding protein gene; and von Willebrand factor gene) for representatives of all orders of marsupials, as well as placental outgroups. The resulting 6.4kb concatenation was analyzed using maximum parsimony, distance methods, maximum likelihood, and Bayesian methods. Kishino and Hasegawa (1989) tests were used to examine a priori hypotheses. All analyses provided robust support for the monophyly of Australidelphia (bootstrap support= 99-100%; posterior probability= 1.00). Ameridelphia received much lower support, although this clade was not rejected in statistical tests. Within Diprotodontia, both Vombatiformes and Phalangeriformes were supported at the 100% bootstrap level and with posterior probabilities of 1.00. (C) 2003 Elsevier Science (USA). All rights reserved.	2003	28	10.1016/S1055-7903(03)00122-2
Braxton, SM; Onstad, DW; Dockter, DE; Giordano, R; Larsson, R; Humber, RA	Description and analysis of two internet-based databases of insect pathogens: EDWIP and VIDIL	JOURNAL OF INVERTEBRATE PATHOLOGY	In 1996, two searchable databases covering insect pathogens were posted on the World Wide Web: the Ecological Database of the Worlds Insect Pathogens (EDWIP) and the Viral Diseases of Insects in the Literature database (VIDIL). In this paper, we describe the format and contents of EDWIP and VIDIL on the World Wide Web. EDWIP contains over 9400 pathogen-host association records, 677 negative test result or no association records, 4454 host species, 2285 pathogen species records, and 2057 bibliographical references. Species of Coleoptera and Lepidoptera are the best represented groups in EDWIP. Lepidopteran species account for the most associations of any host order in EDWIP, over 2500, or 27%. Of the pathogen groups, Protozoa (including microsporidia) accounted for nearly 66% of the pathogen species records and over 40% of the association records in EDWIP. Fungi account for only 18% of the pathogen species, but nearly 33% of the association records. Habitats dominated by human activities (e.g., crop, stored product, and human dwelling) account for most of the host habitats recorded in EDWIP. The United States and Japan are the most common locations and the Nearctic and Palearctic are the most common biogeographic regions reported in EDWIP. There are 4801 annotated bibliographic records in VIDIL. (C) 2003 Elsevier Science (USA). All rights reserved.	2003	83	10.1016/S0022-2011(03)00089-2
Sabbe, K; Verleyen, E; Hodgson, DA; Vanhoutte, K; Vyverman, W	Benthic diatom flora of freshwater and saline lakes in the Larsemann Hills and Rauer Islands, East Antarctica	ANTARCTIC SCIENCE	A floristic and taxonomic survey was made of the diatom communities of sediments and microbial mats in 66 freshwater and saline lakes and pools in the Larsemann Hills, Rauer Islands and Bolingen Islands (continental eastern Antarctica). A total of 3 1 taxa were distinguished, 10 of which could not be identified to species (nine) or even generic (one) level, either because they have most probably not yet been described or because they belong to species complexes that are in need of revision. Four new combinations are proposed; three species are reported for the first time from continental Antarctica, while another three are confirmed for eastern Antarctica for the first time. Analysis of literature data on Antarctic lacustrine diatoms shows that taxonomic practice has a profound influence on the assessment of distribution patterns. Force-fitting of European and North American names to Antarctic taxa and erroneous identifications have contributed to an underestimation of endemism in the diatom flora of Antarctic inland waters. In addition, changing concepts on species boundaries during the last decade influence the interpretation of biogeographic patterns. The application of a more fine grained taxonomy will almost certainly reveal a higher degree of endemism in Antarctica, and especially continental Antarctica. The present case study shows that in the Larsemann Hills Antarctic endemics account for about 40% of all freshwater and brackish taxa, while the biogeographic distribution of about 26% is unknown, mainly due to their uncertain taxonomic identity. This contradicts the view that cosmopolitanism prevails in Antarctic diatoms.	2003	15	10.1017/S095410200300124X
Starmer, WT; Schmedicke, RA; Lachance, MA	The origin of the cactus-yeast community	FEMS YEAST RESEARCH	The yeast community found in decaying cactus stems and cladodes is stable in terms of species membership and is similar in composition over space and time. The ecological origins of the three core and four common species in the assemblage were inferred by mapping yeast habitats onto a phylogeny of yeasts reconstructed from rDNA sequences. The members of the community belong to distinct clades and consequently have independent origins. The inferred evolutionary pathways of the taxa originate in either tree-flux or decaying fruit habitats and lead to decaying Opuntia cladode and columnar stem habitats. The reasons for the polyphyletic origins of the cactus-yeast community could be due to unique aspects of cactus chemistry, environmental extremes, vector association and interactionsamong the members. (C) 2003 Federation of European Microbiological Societies. Published by Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.	2003	3	10.1016/S1567-1356(03)00056-4
Bowman, JP; McCuaig, RD	Biodiversity, community structural shifts, and biogeography of prokaryotes within Antarctic continental shelf sediment	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	16S ribosomal DNA (rDNA) clone library analysis was conducted to assess prokaryotic diversity and community structural changes within a surficial sediment core obtained from an Antarctic continental shelf area (depth, 761 m) within the Mertz Glacier Polynya (MGP) region. Libraries were created from three separate horizons of the core (0- to 0.4-cm, 1.5- to 2.5-cm, and 20- to 21-cm depth positions). The results indicated that at the oxic sediment surface (depth, 0 to 0.4 cm) the microbial community appeared to be dominated by a small subset of potentially r-strategist (fast-growing, opportunistic) species, resulting in a lower-than-expected species richness of 442 operational taxonomic units (OTUs). At a depth of 1.5 to 2.5 cm, the species richness (1,128 OTUs) was much higher, with the community dominated by numerous gamma and delta proteobacterial phylotypes. At a depth of 20 to 21 cm, a clear decline in species richness (541 OTUs) occurred, accompanied by a larger number of more phylogenetically divergent phylotypes and a decline in the predominance of Proteobacteria. Based on rRNA and clonal abundance as well as sequence comparisons, syntrophic cycling of oxidized and reduced sulfur compounds appeared to be the dominant process in surficial MGP sediment, as phylotype groups putatively linked to these processes made up a large proportion of clones throughout the core. Between 18 and 65% of 16S rDNA phylotypes detected in a wide range of coastal and open ocean sediments possessed high levels of sequence similarity (>95%) with the MGP sediment phylotypes, indicating that many sediment prokaryote phylotype groups defined in this study are ubiquitous in marine sediment.	2003	69	10.1128/AEM.69.5.2463-2483.2003
Vanhoye, D; Bruston, F; Nicolas, P; Amiche, M	Antimicrobial peptides from hylid and ranin frogs originated from a 150-million-year-old ancestral precursor with a conserved signal peptide but a hypermutable antimicrobial domain	EUROPEAN JOURNAL OF BIOCHEMISTRY	The dermal glands of frogs produce antimicrobial peptides that protect the skin against noxious microorganisms and assist in wound repair. The sequences of these peptides are very dissimilar, both within and between species, so that the 5000 living anuran frogs may produce approximate to 100 000 different antimicrobial peptides. The antimicrobial peptides of South American hylid frogs are derived from precursors, the preprodermaseptins, whose signal peptides and intervening sequences are remarkably conserved, but their C-terminal domains are markedly diverse, resulting in mature peptides with different lengths, sequences and antimicrobial spectra. We have used the extreme conservation in the preproregion of preprodermaseptin transcripts to identify new members of this family in Australian and South American hylids. All these peptides are cationic, amphipathic and alpha-helical. They killed a broad spectrum of microorganisms and acted in synergy. 42 preprodermaseptin gene sequences from 10 species of hylid and ranin frogs were analyzed in the context of their phylogeny and biogeography and of geophysical models for the fragmentation of Gondwana to examine the strategy that these frogs have evolved to generate an enormous array of peptide antibiotics. The hyperdivergence of modern antimicrobial peptides and the number of peptides per species result from repeated duplications of a approximate to 150-million-year-old ancestral gene and accelerated mutations of the mature peptide domain, probably involving a mutagenic, error-prone, DNA polymerase similar to Escherichia coli Pol V. The presence of antimicrobial peptides with such different structures and spectra of action represents the successful evolution of multidrug defense by providing frogs with maximum protection against infectious microbes and minimizing the chance of microorganisms developing resistance to individual peptides. The hypermutation of the antimicrobial domain by a targeted mutagenic polymerase that can generate many sequence changes in a few steps may have a selective survival value when frogs colonizing a new ecological niche encounter different microbial predators.	2003	270	10.1046/j.1432-1033.2003.03584.x
Filliol, I; Driscoll, JR; van Soolingen, D; Kreiswirth, BN; Kremer, K; Valetudie, G; Anh, DD; Barlow, R; Banerjee, D; Bifani, PJ; Brudey, K; Cataldi, A; Cooksey, RC; Cousins, DV; Dale, JW; Dellagostin, OA; Drobniewski, F; Engelmann, G; Ferdinand, S; Gascoyne-Binzi, D; Gordon, M; Gutierrez, MC; Haas, WH; Heersma, H; Kassa-Kelembho, E; Ly, HM; Makristathis, A; Mammina, C; Martin, G; Mostrom, P; Mokrousov, I; Narbonne, V; Narvskaya, O; Nastasi, A; Niobe-Eyangoh, SN; Pape, JW; Rasolofo-Razanamparany, V; Ridell, M; Rossetti, ML; Stauffer, F; Suffys, PN; Takiff, H; Texier-Maugein, J; Vincent, V; de Waard, JH; Sola, C; Rastogi, N	Snapshot of moving and expanding clones of Mycobacterium tuberculosis and their global distribution assessed by spoligotyping in an international study	JOURNAL OF CLINICAL MICROBIOLOGY	The present update on the global distribution of Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex spoligotypes provides both the octal and binary descriptions of the spoligotypes for M. tuberculosis complex, including Mycobacterium bovis, from >90 countries (13,008 patterns grouped into 813 shared types containing 11,708 isolates and 1,300 orphan patterns). A number of potential indices were developed to summarize the information on the biogeographical specificity of a given shared type, as well as its geographical spreading (matching code and spreading index, respectively). To facilitate the analysis of hundreds of spoligotypes each made up of a binary succession of 43 bits of information, a number of major and minor visual rules were also defined. A total of six major rules (A to F) with the precise description of the extra missing spacers (minor rules) were used to define 36 major clades (or families) of M. tuberculosis. Some major clades identified were the East African-Indian (EAI) clade, the Beijing clade, the Haarlem clade, the Latin American and Mediterranean (LAM) clade, the Central Asian (CAS) clade, a European clade of IS6110 low banders (X; highly prevalent in the United States and United Kingdom), and a widespread yet poorly defined clade (T). When the visual rules defined above were used for an automated labeling of the 813 shared types to define nine superfamilies of strains (Mycobacterium africanum, Beijing, M. bovis, EAI, CAS, T, Haarlem, X, and LAM), 96.9% of the shared types received a label, showing the potential for automated labeling of M. tuberculosis families in well-defined phylogeographical families. Intercontinental matches of shared types among eight continents and subcontinents (Africa, North America, Central America, South America, Europe, the Middle East and Central Asia, and the Far East) are analyzed and discussed.	2003	41	10.1128/JCM.41.5.1963.1970.2003
Bala, A; Murphy, P; Giller, KE	Distribution and diversity of rhizobia nodulating agroforestry legumes in soils from three continents in the tropics	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	The natural rhizobial populations of Calliandra calothyrsus , Gliricidia sepium , Leucaena leucocephala and Sesbania sesban were assessed in soils from nine sites across tropical areas of three continents. The rhizobial population size varied from undetectable numbers to 1.8 x 10(4) cells/g of soil depending on the trap host and the soil. Calliandra calothyrsus was the most promiscuous legume, nodulating in eight soils, while S. sesban nodulated in only one of the soils. Polymerase chain reaction restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP) analyses of the 16S rRNA gene and the internally transcribed spacer (ITS) region between the 16S and 23S rRNA genes were used to assess the diversity and relative abundance of rhizobia trapped from seven of the soils by C. calothyrsus , G. sepium and L. leucocephala . Representatives of the 16S rRNA RFLP groups were also subjected to sequence analysis of the first 950 base pairs of the 16S rRNA gene. Eighty ITS groups were obtained, with none of the ITS types being sampled in more than one soil. RFLP analysis of the 16S rRNA yielded 23 species groups distributed among the Rhizobium , Mesorhizobium , Sinorhizobium and Agrobacterium branches of the rhizobial phylogenetic tree. The phylogeny of the isolates was independent of the site or host of isolation, with different rhizobial groups associated with each host across the soils from widely separated geographical regions. Although rhizobial populations in soils sampled from the centre of diversity of the host legumes were the most genetically diverse, soil acidity was highly correlated with the diversity of ITS types. Our results support the hypothesis that the success of these tree legumes in soils throughout the tropics is the result of their relative promiscuity (permissiveness) allowing nodulation with diverse indigenous rhizobial types.	2003	12	10.1046/j.1365-294X.2003.01754.x
Stepanauskas, R; Moran, MA; Bergamaschi, BA; Hollibaugh, JT	Covariance of bacterioplankton composition and environmental variables in a temperate delta system	AQUATIC MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	We examined seasonal and spatial variation in bacterioplankton composition in the Sacramento-San Joaquin River Delta (CA) using terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) analysis. Cloned 16S rRNA genes from this system were used for putative identification of taxa dominating the T-RFLP profiles. Both cloning and T-RFLP analysis indicated that Actinobacteria, Verrucomicrobia, Cytophaga-Flavobacterium and Proteobacteria were the most abundant bacterioplankton groups in the Delta. Despite the broad variety of sampled habitats (deep water channels, lakes, marshes, agricultural drains, freshwater and brackish areas), and the spatial and temporal differences in hydrology, temperature and water chemistry among the sampling campaigns, T-RFLP electropherograms from all samples were similar, indicating that the same bacterioplankton phylotypes dominated in the various habitats of the Delta throughout the year. However, principal component analysis (PCA) and partial least-squares regression (PLS) of T-RFLP profiles revealed consistent grouping of samples on a seasonal, but not a spatial, basis. beta-Proteobacteria related to Ralstonia, Actinobacteria related to Microthrix, and beta-Proteobacteria identical to the environmental Clone LD12 had the highest relative abundance in summer/fall T-RFLP profiles and were associated with low river flow, high pH, and a number of optical and chemical characteristics of dissolved organic carbon (DOC) indicative of an increased proportion of phytoplankton-produced organic material as opposed to allochthonous, terrestrially derived organic material. On the other hand, Geobacter-related beta-Proteobacteria showed a relative increase in abundance in T-RFLP analysis during winter/spring, and probably were washed out from watershed soils or sediment. Various phylotypes associated with the same phylogenetic division, based on tentative identification of T-RFLP fragments, exhibited diverse seasonal patterns, suggesting that ecological roles of Delta bacterioplankton were partitioned at the genus or species level.	2003	31	10.3354/ame031085
Lopez-Garcia, P; Philippe, H; Gail, F; Moreira, D	Autochthonous eukaryotic diversity in hydrothermal sediment and experimental microcolonizers at the Mid-Atlantic Ridge	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	The diversity and mode of life of microbial eukaryotes in hydrothermal systems is very poorly known. We carried out a molecular survey based on 18S ribosomal RNA genes of eukaryotes present in different hydrothermal niches at the Mid-Atlantic Ridge. These included metal-rich and rare-earth-element-rich hydrothermal sediments of the Rainbow site, fluid-seawater mixing regions, and colonization devices (microcolonizers) containing organic, iron-rich, and porous mineral substrates that were,exposed for 15 days to a fluid source. We identified considerable phylogenetic diversity, both at kingdom level and within kinetoplastids and alveo-lates. None of our sequences affiliates to photosynthesizing lineages, suggesting that we are targeting only autochthonous deep-sea communities. Although sediment harbored most phylogenetic diversity, microcolonizers predominantly contained bodonids and ciliates, indicating that these protists pioneer the colonization process. Given the large variety of divergent lineages detected within the alveolates in deep-sea plankton, hydrothermal sediments, and vents, alveolates seem to dominate the deep ocean in terms of diversity. Compared with data from the Pacific Guaymas basin, some protist lineages seem ubiquitous in hydrothermal areas, whereas others, notably kinetoplastid lineages, very abundant and diverse in our samples, so far have been detected only in Atlantic systems. Unexpectedly, although alvinellid polychaetes are considered endemic of Pacific vents, we detected alvinellid-related sequences at the fluid-seawater interface and in microcolonizers. This finding can boost further studies on deep-sea vent animal biology and biogeography.	2003	100	10.1073/pnas.0235779100
Charlat, S; Le Chat, L; Mercot, H	Characterization of non-cytoplasmic incompatibility inducing Wolbachia in two continental African populations of Drosophila simulans	HEREDITY	Wolbachia is an endocellular bacterium infecting arthropods and nematodes. In arthropods, it invades host populations through various mechanisms, affecting host reproduction, the most common of which being cytoplasmic incompatibility (CI). CI is an embryonic mortality occurring when infected males mate with uninfected females or females infected by a different Wolbachia strain. This phenomenon is observed in Drosophila simulans, an intensively studied Wolbachia host, harbouring at least five distinct bacterial strains. In this study, we investigate various aspects of the Wolbachia infections occurring in two continental African populations of D. simulans: CI phenotype, phylogenetic position based on the wsp gene and associated mitochondrial haplotype. From the East African population (Tanzania), we show that (i) the s/III mitochondrial haplotype occurs in continental populations, which was unexpected based on the current views of D. simulans biogeography, (ii) the wKi strain (that rescues from CI while being unable to induce it) is very closely related to the CI-inducing strain wNo, (iii) wKi and wNo might not derive from a unique infection event, and (iv) wKi is likely to represent the same entity as the previously described wMa variant. In the West African population (Cameroon), the Wolbachia infection was found identical to the previously described wAu, which does not induce CI. This finding supports the view that wAu might be an ancient infection in D. simulans.	2003	90	10.1038/sj.hdy.6800177
Smith, CR; Baco, AR	Ecology of whale falls at the deep-sea floor	OCEANOGRAPHY AND MARINE BIOLOGY, VOL 41	The falls of large whales (30-160t adult body weight) yield massive pulses of labile organic matter to the deep-sea floor. While scientists have long speculated on the ecological roles of such concentrated food inputs, observations have accumulated since the 1850s to suggest that deep-sea whale falls support a widespread, characteristic fauna. Interest in whale-fall ecology heightened with the discovery in 1989 of a chemoautotrophic assemblage on a whale skeleton in the northeast Pacific; related communities were soon reported from whale falls in other bathyal and abyssal Pacific and Atlantic sites, and from 30 mya (million years ago) in the northeast Pacific fossil record. Recent time-series studies of natural and implanted deep-sea whale falls off California, USA indicate that bathyal carcasses pass through at least three successional stages: (1) a mobile-scavenger stage lasting months to years, during which aggregations of sleeper sharks, hagfish, rat-tails and invertebrate scavengers remove whale soft tissue at high rates (40-60 kg d(-1)); (2) an enrichment opportunist stage (duration of months to years) during which organically enriched sediments and exposed bones are colonised by dense assemblages (up to 40 000 m(-2)) of opportunistic polychaetes and crustaceans; (3) a sulphophilic (or sulphur-loving) stage lasting for decades, during which a large, species-rich, trophically complex assemblage lives on the skeleton as it emits sulphide from anaerobic breakdown of bone lipids; this stage includes a chemoautotrophic component deriving nutrition from sulphur-oxidising bacteria. Local species diversity on large whale skeletons during the sulphophilic stage (mean of 185 macrofaunal species) is higher than in any other deep-sea hard substratum community. Global species richness on whale falls (407 species) is also high compared with cold seeps and rivals that of hydrothermal vents, even though whale-fall habitats are very poorly sampled. Population-level calculations suggest that whale falls are relatively common on the deep-sea floor, potentially allowing macrofaunal species to specialise on these habitat islands; to date, 21 macrofaunal species are known only from whale falls and may be whale-fall specialists. Nonetheless, whale falls also share I I species with hydrothermal vents and 20 species with cold seeps, and thus may provide dispersal stepping stones for a subset of the vent and seep faunas. Molecular evidence also suggests that whale falls provided evolutionary stepping stones for the bathymodiolin mussel lineage to move down the continental slope and into deep-sea vent and seep habitats. Finally, whale-fall bacteria have proven to be a novel source of cold-adapted enzymes of potential utility in cold-water detergents. Despite these scientific advances, major gaps persist in our understanding of the microbial processes, reproductive strategies, population genetics, and biogeography of whale-fall communities.	2003	41	
Dazzo, FB; Joseph, AR; Gomaa, AB; Yanni, YG; Robertson, GP	Quantitative indices for the autecological biogeography of a Rhizobium endophyte of rice at macro and micro spatial scales	SYMBIOSIS	Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. trifolii E11 is a natural root endophyte of rice isolated in the Nile delta where rice and berseem clover have been rotated since antiquity. Its autecological biogeography is being examined at two spatial scales: one at a macro scale relevant to its proposed use as a plant growth-promotive biofertilizer in rice-berseem clover agroecosystems, and a second at a micro scale relevant to its colonization of rice roots. Here we introduce two new indices to measure the prevalence in distribution of strain Ell within a defined spatial domain. An autecological biogeography index is described to map the distribution of a specific strain of rhizobia on a macro scale based on immunofluorescence microscopy of nodule occupants on legume trap hosts. A cluster index is introduced to analyze the in situ spatial pattern of root colonization by the bacteria at single-cell resolution using CMEIAS (Center for Microbial Ecology Image Analysis System) software for computer-assisted microscopy. When sampled at multiple georeferenced sites (i.e., at known Cartesian x,y coordinates relative to a landmark origin), these two indices provide values that are suitable for general use as the Z variate in spatial geostatistical analyses to model bacterial dispersion and colonization behavior, and to produce interpolated maps of the continuous distribution of the microbial symbiont within the defined spatial domain of the geographical region or root substratum, including areas that cannot be physically sampled. Both indices also have the potential for broad applications in microbial ecology.	2003	35	
McMullin, ER; Hourdez, S; Schaeffer, SW; Fisher, CR	Phylogeny and biogeography of deep sea vestimentiferan tubeworms and their bacterial symbionts	SYMBIOSIS	The present study combines previously published morphological descriptions and molecular-based characterizations of vestimentiferans and their symbionts with new molecular data to summarize and extend the understanding of vestimentiferan host and symbiont phylogeny and biogeography. Host cytochrome oxidase I (COI) and symbiont 16S ribosomal gene (16S) DNA sequences were used to explore evolutionary relationships among the vestimentiferans and their symbionts. Lamellibrachids of the northern Gulf of Mexico (GOM) are identified as a single species, Lamellibrachia cf luymesi, and new data and analyses are presented for Lamellibrachia barhami, Paraescarpia echinospica, and Arcovestia ivanovi. In general, both vestimentiferan hosts and symbionts have very large species ranges that are interrupted by depth. No evidence for cospeciation was found between vestimentiferans; and their symbionts, supporting an environmental acquisition of the symbionts. Symbiont acquisition depends on host type (vent or seep), depth of site, and possibly host species. A test of evolutionary rate showed that vent vestimentiferans had a significantly faster COI sequence evolution than lamellibrachids, and symbionts from vent and seep vestimentiferans from deep water sites had a significantly slower rate of evolution than those from mid-depth and shallow sites.	2003	34	
Lipp, EK; Huq, A; Colwell, RR	Effects of global climate on infectious disease: the cholera model	CLINICAL MICROBIOLOGY REVIEWS	Recently, the role of the environment and climate in disease dynamics has become a subject of increasing interest to microbiologists, clinicians, epidemiologists, and ecologists. Much of the interest has been stimulated by the growing problems of antibiotic resistance among pathogens, emergence and/or reemergence of infectious diseases worldwide, the potential of bioterrorism, and the debate concerning climate change. Cholera, caused by Vibrio cholerae, lends itself to analyses of the role of climate in infectious disease, coupled to population dynamics of pathogenic microorganisms, for several reasons. First, the disease has a historical context linking it to specific seasons and biogeographical zones. In addition, the population dynamics of V cholerae in the environment are strongly controlled by environmental factors, such as water temperature, salinity, and the presence of copepods, which are, in turn, controlled by larger-scale climate variability. In this review, the association between plankton and V cholerae that has been documented over the last 20 years is discussed in support of the hypothesis that cholera shares properties of a vector-borne disease. In addition, a model for environmental transmission of cholera to humans in the context of climate variability is presented. The cholera model provides a template for future research on climate-sensitive diseases, allowing definition of critical parameters and offering a means of developing more sophisticated methods for prediction of disease outbreaks.	2002	15	10.1128/CMR.15.4.757-770.2002
Ivanova, EP; Matte, GR; Matte, MH; Coenye, T; Huq, A; Colwell, RR	Characterization of Pseudoalteromonas citrea and P-nigrifaciens isolated from different ecological habitats based on REP-PCR genomic fingerprints	SYSTEMATIC AND APPLIED MICROBIOLOGY	DNA primers corresponding to conserved repetitive interspersed genomic motifs and PCR were used to show that REP, ERIC and BOX-like DNA sequences are present in marine, oxidative, Gram-negative Pseudoalteromonas strains. REP, ERIC and BOX-PCR were used for rapid molecular characterization of both the type species of the genus and environmental strains isolated from samples collected in different geographical areas. PCR-generated genomic fingerprint patterns were found to be both complex and strain specific. Analysis of the genotypic structure of phenotypically diverse P. citrea revealed a geographic clustering of Far Eastern brown-pigmented, agar-digesting strains of this species. Marine isolates of P. nigrifaciens with 67-70% DNA relatedness generated genomic patterns different from those of the type strain and formed a separate cluster. It is concluded that REP, ERIC and BOX-PCR are effective in generating strain specific patterns that can be used to elucidate geographic distribution, with these genomic patterns providing a valuable biogeographic criterion.	2002	25	10.1078/0723-2020-00103
Lieberman, BS	Phylogenetic analysis of some basal early Cambrian trilobites, the biogeographic origins of the Eutrilobita, and the timing of the Cambrian radiation	JOURNAL OF PALEONTOLOGY	This paper presents a phylogenetic analysis of the Fallotaspidoidea, a determination of the biogeographic origins of the eutrilobites, and art evaluation of the timing of the Cambrian radiation based on biogeographic evidence. Phylogenetic analysis incorporated 29 exoskeletal characters and 16 ingroup taxa. In the single most parsimonious tree the genus Fallotaspidella Repina, 1961, is the sister taxon of the sutured members of the Redlichiina Richter, 1932. Phylogenetic analysis is also used to determine the evolutionary relationships of two new species of fallotaspidoids distributed in the White-Inyo Range of California that have been previously illustrated but not described. These species had been referred to Fallotaspis Hupe, 1953, and used to define the occurrence of the eponymous Fallotaspis Zone in Southwestern Laurentia. However, these two new species need to be reassigned to Archaeaspis Repina in Khomentovskii and Repina, 1965. They are described as Archaeaspis nelsoni and A. macropleuron. Their phylogenetic status Suggests that the Fallotaspis Zone in southwestern Laurentia is not exactly analogous to the Fallotaspis Zone in Morocco, where that division was originally defined. Thus, changes to the biostratigraphy of the Early Cambrian of Southwestern Laurentia may be in order. Furthermore, specimens of a new species referable to Nevadia Walcott, 1910, are recognized in strata traditionally treated as within the Fallotaspis Zone, which is held to underlie the Nevadella Zone, suggesting further biostratigraphic complexity within the basal Lower Cambrian of southwestern Laurentia. Phylogenetic analyses of the Olenellina and Olenelloidea, along with the phylogenetic analysis presented here, are used to consider the biogeographic origins of the eutrilobites. The group appears to have originated in Siberia. Biogeographic patterns in trilobites, especially those relating to the split between the Olenellid and Redlichiid faunal provinces are important for determining the timing of the Cambrian radiation. Some authors have argued that there was a hidden radiation that significantly predated the Cambrian, whereas others have suggested that the radiation occurred right at the start of the Cambrian. The results from trilobite biogeography presented here support an early radiation. They are most compatible with the notion that there was a vicariance event relating to the origin of the redlichimid trilobites, and thus the eponymous Redlichiid faunal province, from the fallotaspidoids. whose representatives were part of the Olenellid faunal province. This vicariance event, based on biogeographic patterns. is likely related to the breakup of Pannotia which occurred sometime between 600-550 Ma. suggesting that the initial episodes of trilobite cladogenesis occurred within that interval. As trilobites are relatively derived arthropods, this suggests that numerous important episodes of metazoan cladogeriesis precede both the earliest trilobitic part of the Early Cambrian, and indeed. even the Early Cambrian.	2002	76	10.1666/0022-3360(2002)076<0692:PAOSBE>2.0.CO;2
Al-Qassab, S; Lee, WJ; Murray, S; Simpson, AGB; Patterson, DJ	Flagellates from stromatolites and surrounding sediments in Shark Bay, Western Australia	ACTA PROTOZOOLOGICA	Hamelin Pool in Western Australia is home to distinctive shallow-water marine benthic communities dominated by stromatolites-structures formed by bacterial assemblages. We have sought to establish if the principal consumers of bacteria, the flagellates, form a distinctive community. We present observations of 87 species of flagellates, of which three are new (Notosolenus hamelini, Ploeotia laminae, Ancyromonas sinistra), and 15 (12 of which are dinoflagellates) have not been previously reported in Australia. The communities have been compared with other communities from marine sediments using cluster analysis. The community of flagellates in Hamelin Pool was found not to be significantly different from communities from other marine benthic habitats, and abundances (about 1 x 10(5) cells/cm(3)) are also comparable to those in other sediments. We find no evidence that the formation of stromatolites is made possible by a reduced predation pressure from heterotrophic flagellates.	2002	41	
Monis, PT; Andrews, RH; Saint, CP	Molecular biology techniques in parasite ecology	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL FOR PARASITOLOGY	Molecular techniques are increasingly being used to study the ecology of a variety of organisms. These techniques represent important tools for the study of the systematics, population genetics, biogeography and ecology of parasites. Here, we review the techniques that have been employed to study the ecology and systematics of parasites (including bacteria and viruses). Particular emphasis is placed on the techniques of isoenzyme electrophoresis, in situ hybridisation and nucleic acid amplification to characterise parasite/microbial communities. The application of these techniques will be exemplified using ticks, bacterial endosymbionts and parasitic protozoa. (C) 2002 Australian Society for Parasitology Inc. Published by Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.	2002	32	10.1016/S0020-7519(01)00352-6
Balvanera, P; Lott, E; Segura, G; Siebe, C; Islas, A	Patterns of beta-diversity in a Mexican tropical dry forest	JOURNAL OF VEGETATION SCIENCE	Patterns of beta-diversity in a highly diverse tropical dry forest tree community are described; the contribution of environmental heterogeneity and distance to beta-diversity was assessed. Significant differences in elevation, insolation, slope and soil water holding capacity (p < 0.01), variables related to water availability, were found among 8 30 m x 100 rut transects laid along contrasting slopes of a system of three parallel microbasins. A gradient in elevation and insolation was found within north-facing transects, among 10 m x 10 m sites; south-facing transects showed an elevation gradient while crest transects showed a gradient in water holding capacity. In total 119 species were registered, with 27 to 64 species per transect, and 4 to 16 species per site. A large beta-diversity was found among and within transects; two indices of beta-diversity consistently showed a higher beta-diversity within transects than among them. Among transects, 64% of the variance in species composition could be attributed to the environmental variables; an additional 22% to the spatial distribution of sites. Within transects, 42% of the deviance in beta-diversity values was explained by insolation, and 19% by distance. beta-diversity increased with distance and with difference in insolation among sites; north-facing transects, those with most contrasting insolation conditions, had the steepest increase in beta-diversity with distance. Such increase was clearly associated with changes in species composition, not with changes in species richness.	2002	13	10.1111/j.1654-1103.2002.tb02034.x
Rivkin, RB; Legendre, L	Roles of food web and heterotrophic microbial processes in upper ocean biogeochemistry: Global patterns and processes	ECOLOGICAL RESEARCH	The growth and dynamics of plankton in the ocean vary with natural cycles, global climate change and the long-term evolution of ecosystems. The ocean is a large reservoir for CO2 and the food webs in the upper ocean play critical roles in regulating the global carbon cycle, changes in atmospheric CO2 and associated global warming. Microheterotrophs are a key component of the upper ocean food webs. Here, we report on the results of an analysis of the distribution of bacteria and related properties in the World Ocean. We found that, for the data set as a whole, there is a significant latitudinal gradient in all field-measured and computed bacterial properties, except growth rate. Gradients were, for the most part, driven by an equator-ward increase in the Southern Hemisphere. The biomass, rates of production and respiration and dissolved organic carbon concentrations were significantly higher in the Northern than the Southern hemispheres. In contrast, growth rates were the same in the two hemispheres. We conclude that the lower biomass and production in the Southern Hemisphere reflects greater top-down control by microbial grazers, which would be due to a lower abundance or activity of omnivorous zooplankton in the Southern than Northern Hemispheres. These large spatial differences in dynamics, structure and activity of the bacterial community and the microbial food web will be reflected in different patterns of carbon cycling, export and air-sea exchange of CO2 and the potential ability of the ocean to sequester carbon.	2002	17	10.1046/j.1440-1703.2002.00475.x
Legendre, P; Makarenkov, V	Reconstruction of biogeographic and evolutionary networks using reticulograms	SYSTEMATIC BIOLOGY	A reticulogram is a general network capable of representing a reticulate evolutionary structure. It is particularly useful for portraying relationships among organisms that may be related in a nonunique way to their common ancestor-relationships that cannot be represented by a dendrogram or a phylogenetic tree. We propose a new method for constructing reticulograms that represent a given distance matrix. Reticulate evolution applies first to phylogenetic problems; it has been found in nature, for example, in the within-species microevolution of eukaryotes and in lateral gene transfer in bacteria. In this paper, we propose a new method for reconstructing reticulation networks and we develop applications of the reticulate evolution model to ecological biogeographic, population microevolutionary, and hybridization problems. The first example considers a spatially constrained reticulogram representing the postglacial dispersal of freshwater fishes in the Quebec peninsula; the reticulogram provides a better model of postglacial dispersal than does a tree model. The second example depicts the morphological similarities among local populations of muskrats in a river valley in Belgium; adding supplementary branches to a tree depicting the river network leads to a better representation of the morphological distances among local populations of muskrats than does a tree structure. A third example involves hybrids between plants of the genus Aphelandra.	2002	51	10.1080/10635150252899725
Smith, H; Coupe, S	Testate amoebae - past, present and future	EUROPEAN JOURNAL OF PROTISTOLOGY	Records of the testate amoeba fauna of soils have accumulated throughout the 20(th) century from numerous sites on all the Earths continents, ranging from equatorial to polar, with analyses of species assemblages in relation to environmental conditions - especially hydrological. Testates have considerable potential to be used as indicators of environmental change and to give insight into the processes of microbial biogeography and speciation. Small ubiquitous species may have an essential role in the biological succcession as soils develop from mineral substrates. Present knowledge suggests that future research in these areas will be of high value.	2002	37	10.1078/0932-4739-00352
Sheldon, WM; Moran, MA; Hollibaugh, JT	Efforts to link ecological metadata with bacterial gene sequences at the Sapelo Island Microbial Observatory	6TH WORLD MULTICONFERENCE ON SYSTEMICS, CYBERNETICS AND INFORMATICS, VOL VII, PROCEEDINGS: INFORMATION SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT II	The existence of public databases for archiving genetic sequence data, such as GenBank and the Ribosomal Database Project, coupled with the availability of standardized sequence alignment and comparison tools has led to rapid advances in the field of bacterial genetics and systematics. Many microbial ecologists now routinely submit gene sequences obtained from environmental isolates, clones, and bands excised from electrophoretic gels to public sequence databases. As the amount of environmental sequence data in these systems has increased, ecologists have begun using sequence databases for broader classes of studies, such as biogeography and community ecology. Unfortunately, the general lack of documentation and data quality control standards has resulted in many sequences being entered without appropriate metadata, effectively orphaning records from their ecological context information and making comparisons impossible. In order to address the shortcomings of public sequence databases, an independent 16S rRNA sequence database was recently developed at the Sapelo Island Microbial Observatory (SIMO) in Georgia, USA. The database was created to store complete information from all SIMO research activities using a hierarchical structure designed to reflect the actual flow of information from sample collection through final publication. By incorporating key fields from external databases, such as GenBank, the SIMO database is able to serve both as an independent research tool for SIMO scientists and as a reference source for SIMO data stored in other databases.	2002		
Reysenbach, AL; Gotz, D; Banta, A; Jeanthon, C; Fouquet, Y	Expanding the distribution of the Aquificales to the deep-sea vents on Mid-Atlantic Ridge and Central Indian Ridge	CAHIERS DE BIOLOGIE MARINE		2002	43	
Schmitter-Soto, JJ; Comin, FA; Escobar-Briones, E; Herrera-Silveira, J; Alcocer, J; Suarez-Morales, E; Elias-Gutierrez, M; Diaz-Arce, V; Marin, LE; Steinich, B	Hydrogeochemical and biological characteristics of cenotes in the Yucatan Peninsula (SE Mexico)	HYDROBIOLOGIA	Cenotes (sinkholes) are the most peculiar aquatic ecosystem of the Yucatan Peninsula (SE Mexico). They are formed by dissolution of the carbonate rock in the karstic platform of the Yucatan Peninsula. A wide morphological variety is observed from caves filled with ground water to open cenotes. In some cenotes, particularly those close to the sea, underneath the fresh water one finds saltwater, where meromixis can take place. This occurs because in the Yucatan Peninsula there is a thin lens (10s of meters thick) that floats above denser saline water. In these cenotes, a relative enrichment of sodium related to calcium is observed while conductivity increases. In contrast, a higher increase of calcium associated to sulfate is observed in cenotes located in SE Yucatan Peninsula. A marked vertical stratification of the water is established during the warm and rainy season of the year (May-October). In cenotes with good hydraulic connection with the rest of the aquifer, the water remains clear during most of the year. However, cenotes with poor hydraulic connection with the aquifer are characterized by turbid waters and very low light transparency. In this group of cenotes, the water column contains a high concentration of chlorophyll (mostly due to chlorophyceans, cyanobacteria, diatoms and dinoflagellates); the hypolimnion and the sediment are rich in organic matter and anaerobic bacteria mediated biogeochemical processes are dominant. The upper part of the cenotes walls is well illuminated and covered by a rich microbial mat. Floating macrophytes may also occupy part of the water surface in oligotrophic cenotes. A great variety of food web paths are represented in the habitats occurring in the cenotes, in which few trophic levels are involved. A few endemic species (crustaceans and fishes) have been reported from cenotes found in the Yucatan Peninsula. Because of the high organic matter input (alochthonous) and production (autochthonous) and the low water flow, cenotes can be considered heterotrophic systems.	2002	467	10.1023/A:1014923217206
Barry, JP; Buck, KR; Kochevar, RK; Nelson, DC; Fujiwara, Y; Goffredi, SK; Hashimoto, J	Methane-based symbiosis in a mussel, Bathymodiolus platifrons, from cold seeps in Sagami Bay, Japan	INVERTEBRATE BIOLOGY	Bathymodiolus platifrons, a chemosynthetic mussel from cold seeps off Japan, relies for its nutrition on the productivity of methylotrophic or methanotrophic endosymbionts. High densities of bacterial symbionts appealing to be type I methanotrophs were observed in transmission electron micrographs of gill tissues. Methanol dehydrogenase activity in gill tissue C, from a single individual was positive compared to non-methanotrophic control samples, indicating a high potential for methanotrophy. Stable isotopic ratios of carbon in symbiont-containing gill tissue, as well as host tissues, were extremely depleted in C-13, and similar to values reported for other methanotrophic species. TEMs of gill tissue showing symbionts in various stages of digestion support the hypothesis that carbon transfer from symbionts to B. platifrons occurs through intracellular digestion of the symbionts. Discovery of methane- or methanol-based symbioses in B. platifrons from cold seeps in Sagami Bay extends the range of such symbioses to include cold seeps and hydrothermal vents, and supports the idea that environmental methane levels control the distribution of these symbioses.	2002	121	
Pereira, PT; de Carvalho, MM; Girio, FM; Roseiro, JC; Amaral-Collaco, MT	Diversity of microfungi in the phylloplane of plants growing in a Mediterranean ecosystem	JOURNAL OF BASIC MICROBIOLOGY	Mediterranean ecosystems have not been investigated as natural habitats for microorganisms in general, and microfungi in particular. Plants harvested in Serra da Arrabida (38degrees27 N, 9degrees02 W), a Mediterranean ecosystem in Portugal, were analyzed for the filamentous microfungi inhabiting their surface. Two field locations with distinct climatic characteristics were studied: Fonte do Veado (38degrees2850 N, 9degrees017 W; 300 in elevation) located on the northern slope, and Mata do Solitario (38degrees2755 N, 8degrees5935 W; 50 in elevation), on the southern slope. From Veado zone, leaf samples yielded a total of 3049 isolates, ranging from 317 to 1328/sample (mean = 762). The number of species/sample ranged from 12 to 24. From Solitario zone, leaf samples yielded a total of 1337 isolates, ranging from 189 to 528/sample. (mean = 334). The number of species/sample, in this case, ranged from 10 to 17. Veado zone showed a wider range of species. The fungal species more frequently isolated from both zones (Aureobasidium pullulans (DE BARY) ARNAUD, Cladosporium cladosporioides (FRESEN.) DE VRIES, C sphaerospermum PENZIG and Alternaria alternata (FR.) KEISSLER) were found in all plant samples and represents 80% (Veado) and 85% (Solitario) of the total isolates.	2002	42	10.1002/1521-4028(200212)42:6<396::AID-JOBM396>3.0.CO;2-L
Moreira, D; Lopez-Garcia, P	The molecular ecology of microbial eukaryotes unveils a hidden world	TRENDS IN MICROBIOLOGY	In spite of the great success of small-subunit ribosomal RNA (SSU rRNA)-based studies for the analysis of environmental prokaryotic diversity, this molecular approach has seldom been applied to microbial eukaryotes. Recent molecular surveys of the smallest eukaryotic planktonic fractions at different oceanic surface regions and in deep-sea Antarctic samples revealed an astonishing protist diversity. Many of the phylotypes found in the photic region affiliate with photosynthetic groups that are known to contain picoeukaryotic representatives in the range 1-2 mum. Surprisingly, a vast diversity of presumably heterotrophic or mixotrophic lineages is also found. Among these, several novel lineages of heterokonts, and a large diversity of alveolates clustering in two major groups (Groups I and II), are present at all depths in the water column. Marry of these new phylotypes appear biogeographically ubiquitous. These initial studies suggest that a wide diversity of small eukaryotes remains to be discovered not only in the ocean but also in other environments. For both ecology and evolutionary studies, it is predicted that environmental molecular identification of eukaryotes will have a profound impact in the immediate future.	2002	10	10.1016/S0966-842X(01)02257-0
Sequeira, AS; Farrell, BD	Evolutionary origins of Gondwanan interactions: How old are Araucaria beetle herbivores?	BIOLOGICAL JOURNAL OF THE LINNEAN SOCIETY	Studies of a variety of phenomena, ranging from rates of molecular substitution to rates of diversification, draw on estimates of geological age. Studies incorporating estimates of timing from fossils or other geological evidence are largely of relatively young, Tertiary divergences, to which older systems may provide useful comparisons. One apparently old assemblage comprises the beetle groups associated with the ancient genus Araucaria that share comparable, ostensibly Gondwanan distributions with their host. Our previous studies suggested a possibly Cretaceous age for Araucaria associations in bark beetles. However, the absence of confirmed bark beetle fossils earlier than the Tertiary has been taken as evidence of Cretaceous absence, and their confirmed phylogenetic position within the primitively angiosperm-feeding weevil family rules out pre-angiosperm, Jurassic origins. Nevertheless, an early shift from angiosperms to Araucaria seemed plausible in the light of Araucaria fossil history which spans the Mesozoic since the Jurassic. To resolve the phylogenetic affinities and to estimate divergence times of the Australian and South American bark beetle genera affiliated with Araucaria we analysed DNA sequences of nuclear and mitochondrial genes: protein coding elongation factor alpha, enolase and cytochrome oxidase I. The most parsimonious reconstruction of the host relationships of Tomicini from the combined dataset corroborates the ancestral association with the genus Araucaria of both South American and Australian Tomicini. Bayesian estimation of divergence times indicates that the divergence between the Australian and the South American Araucaria-feeding taxa occurred at the very latest in the Cretaceous/Paleocene border and that the age of the first Scolytinae-Araucaria association would then be during the later stages of the Late Cretaceous, while other known beetle/Araucaria associations are Jurassic. (C) 2001 The Linnean Society of London.	2001	74	10.1006/bijl.2001.0582
Boucot, AJ; Gray, J	A critique of Phanerozoic climatic models involving changes in the CO2 content of the atmosphere	EARTH-SCIENCE REVIEWS	Critical consideration of varied Phanerozoic climatic models, and comparison of them against Phanerozoic global climatic gradients revealed by a compilation of Cambrian through Miocene climatically sensitive sediments (evaporites, coals, tillites, lateritic soils, bauxites, calcretes, etc.) suggests that the previously postulated climatic models do not satisfactorily account for the geological information: Nor do many climatic conclusions based on botanical data stand up very well when examined critically. Although this account does not deal directly with global biogeographic information, another powerful source of climatic information, we have tried to incorporate such data into our thinking wherever possible, particularly in the earlier Paleozoic. In view of the excellent correlation between CO2 present in Antarctic ice cores, going back some hundreds of thousands of years, and global climatic gradient, one wonders whether or not the commonly postulated Phanerozoic connection between atmospheric CO2 and global climatic gradient is more coincidence than cause and effect. Many models have been proposed that attempt to determine atmospheric composition and global temperature through geological time, particularly for the Phanerozoic or significant portions of it. Many models assume a positive correlation between atmospheric CO2 and surface temperature, thus viewing changes in atmospheric CO2 as playing the critical role in regulating climate/temperature, but none agree on the levels of atmospheric CO2 through time. Prior to the relatively recent interval of time in which atmospheric CO2 is directly measurable, a variety of biological and geological proxies have been proposed to correlate with atmospheric CO2 level or with pCO(2)/temperature. Atmospheric models may be constructed for the Pre-Cenozoic but the difficulties of assessing variables in their construction are many and complex. None of the modelers have gathered enough biological and geological data to impart reliability to the model constructs. Most modelers focus almost exclusively on one or a few variables as proxy to measure atmospheric CO2, nor consider the many other variables involved, nor agree on what these variables are or how to measure them. In this paper, it is the reliability of the present data bases used in these atmospheric models that we wish to consider. We focus most attention on the Berner models, such as GEOCARB I, II and BLAG, because of the basic role they attribute to tracheophytes in regulating atmospheric CO2 and our own interest in pre-tracheophytic land plants and the atmospheric composition of the pre-tracheophytic Paleozoic. We survey the presence of symbiotic mycorrhizae and question the assumption that all tracheophytes are obligately associated with them. Although pre-tracheophytic embryophytes, cyanobacteria, and possibly other organisms preceded tracheophytes on land by millions of years, Berners models do not consider a significant role for them in affecting pre-Devonian climate/temperature and atmospheric composition. In effect, Berner assumes that pre-tracheophytic life inhabited a world governed largely by abiotic physical and chemical reactions. We consider uncertainties raised by minimizing possible roles for pre-tracheophytic oxygenic and heterotrophic microorganisms analogous to those speculated to be unique to tracheophytes both with regard to an active role in biodeterioration of rock and soil mineral substrates and in the sequestration of organic carbon. Additionally, Berner does not consider marine productivity, which might have been high in the Precambrian and Early Paleozoic and possibly consequent organic carbon sequestration, even in the possible absence of terrestrial organisms, or even in the absence of a significant preserved biomass of terrestrial and marine organisms. The important roles played by cyanobacteria, for example, are briefly reviewed by Giller and Malmqvist in lakes and rivers as regards both planktonic and benthic taxa, and it is not safe to assume that these organisms were absent or of no potential significance in the pre-embryophytic, i.e. earlier Ordovician and well back into the Precambrian. Berners models have met with a large measure of consensus about CO2 balance during the Phanerozoic, about the role played by tracheophytes, and have been used to test or evaluate other data. After reviewing the biological and geological assumptions and estimates on which these Models are based, we conclude that they do not provide reliable information about atmospheric CO2 composition through Phanerozoic time, particularly in the Early Phanerozoic. We compare many atmospheric CO2 models, while considering the numerous proxies on which they are based and conclude that the competing models are inadequate for atmospheric CO estimation. Many possibilities not considered in present models must either be included or eliminated based on reliable evidence. We suggest that assessing Phanerozoic climate/temperature based on the available geological/climatic proxies would appear to provide a more reliable method of estimating variations in CO2 and hence atmospheric CO2:O-2 balance, than most proxy constructs on which atmospheric models are presently based, because of the critical role postulated for atmospheric CO2 in regulating Earths surface temperature. We present our own Phanerozoic climate estimate, based on readily available geological/climatic data, for comparison with postulated coeval atmospheric CO2 levels as a test of the postulated correlation. (C) 2001 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.	2001	56	10.1016/S0012-8252(01)00066-6
Van Dover, CL; Humphris, SE; Fornari, D; Cavanaugh, CM; Collier, R; Goffredi, SK; Hashimoto, J; Lilley, MD; Reysenbach, AL; Shank, TM; Von Damm, KL; Banta, A; Gallant, RM; Gotz, D; Green, D; Hall, J; Harmer, TL; Hurtado, LA; Johnson, P; McKiness, ZP; Meredith, C; Olson, E; Pan, IL; Turnipseed, M; Won, Y; Young, CR; Vrijenhoek, RC	Biogeography and ecological setting of Indian Ocean hydrothermal vents	SCIENCE	Within the endemic invertebrate faunas of hydrothermal vents, five biogeographic provinces are recognized. Invertebrates at two Indian Ocean vent fields (Kairei and Edmond) belong to a sixth province, despite ecological settings and invertebrate-bacterial symbioses similar to those of both western Pacific and Atlantic vents. Most organisms found at these Indian Ocean vent fields have evolutionary affinities with western Pacific vent faunas, but a shrimp that ecologically dominates Indian Ocean vents closely resembles its Mid-Atlantic counterpart. These findings contribute to a global assessment of the biogeography of chemosynthetic faunas and indicate that the Indian Ocean vent community follows asymmetric assembly rules biased toward Pacific evolutionary alliances.	2001	294	10.1126/science.1064574
Bardgett, RD; Jones, AC; Jones, DL; Kemmitt, SJ; Cook, R; Hobbs, PJ	Soil microbial community patterns related to the history and intensity of grazing in sub-montane ecosystems	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	Long-term variations in the frequency and intensity of sheep (Ovis aries) grazing have led to the development of ubiquitous plant successional transitions in sub-montane regions of the UK. In this study, we measured a range of soil microbial properties across these successional transitions in three biogeographic regions of the UK, to establish how gradients If grazing-influence (in terms of the history and intensity of sheep grazing) alter the biomass, activity, and structure of soil microbial communities. We also measured soil physicochemical variables to relate changes in soil microbial community arrangement along these grazing-related successional transitions to key soil properties. Our results from three locations show that microbial communities of soils display some consistent and broad-scale trends along successional transitions that are related to the history and intensity of grazing. We show that microbial biomass of soil is maximal at low-to-intermediate levels of grazing influence and that the phenotypic evenness (a component of diversity) of the microbial community declines as the intensity of grazing increases. We also provide evidence that soil microbial communities of heavily grazed sites a-re dominated by bacterial-based energy channels of decomposition, whereas in systems that are less intensively grazed, or completely unmanaged, fungi have a proportionally greater role. Further studies are needed to establish the significance of these changes in relation to soil-level ecosystem processes of decomposition and nutrient cycling. The data show that human disturbances can have profound effects on the biomass and structure of the soil communities that regulate soil processes in these ecosystems and that these effects are consistent across sites. (C) 2001 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.	2001	33	10.1016/S0038-0717(01)00086-4
Miller, SR; Castenholz, RW	Ecological physiology of Synechococcus sp strain SH-94-5, a naturally occurring cyanobacterium deficient in nitrate assimilation	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Synechococcus sp. strain SH-94-5 is a nitrate assimilation-deficient cyanobacterium which was isolated from an ammonium-replete hot spring in central Oregon. While this clone could grow on ammonium and some forms of organic nitrogen as sole nitrogen sources, it could not grow on either nitrate or nitrite, even under conditions favoring passive diffusion, It was determined that this clone does not er;press functional nitrate reductase or nitrite reductase and that the lack of activity of either enzyme is not due to inactivation of the cyanobacterial nitrogen control protein NtcA. A few other naturally occurring cyanobacterial strains are also nitrate assimilation deficient, and phylogenetic analyses indicated that the ability to utilize nitrate has been independently lost at least four times during the evolutionary history of the cyanobacteria, This phenotype is associated with the presence of environmental ammonium, a negative regulator of nitrate assimilation gene expression, which may indicate that natural selection to maintain functional copies of nitrate assimilation genes has been relaxed in these habitats. These results suggest how the evolutionary fates of conditionally expressed genes might differ between environments and thereby effect ecological divergence and biogeographical structure in the microbial world.	2001	67	10.1128/AEM.67.7.3002-3009.2001
Meusnier, I; Olsen, JL; Stam, WT; Destombe, C; Valero, M	Phylogenetic analyses of Caulerpa taxifolia (Chlorophyta) and of its associated bacterial microflora provide clues to the origin of the Mediterranean introduction	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	The accidental introduction of Caulerpa taxifolia into the Mediterranean is no longer under dispute. What has eluded researchers until now is definitive evidence for the original, biogeographical source population. Here we present two independent lines of evidence that support an Australian origin for the Mediterranean populations of C. taxifolia. First, we reanalysed algal rDNA-internal transcribed spacer (rDNA-ITS) sequences, combining previously published sequences from different studies with 22 new sequences. The ITS sequence comparison showed that the Australian sample is the sister group of the Mediterranean-aquarium clade. Second, cloned bacterial 16S rDNA gene sequences were analysed from the associated microflora of C. taxifolia collected from Australia, Tahiti, the Philippines and the Mediterranean. Five bacterial lineages were identified, of which three were dominant. alpha Proteobacteria were the most abundant and were found in all samples. In contrast, members of the beta Proteobacterial line and Cytophaga-Flexibacter-Bacteroides line (CFB) were mainly associated with Mediterranean and Australian samples. Frequency distributions of the five bacterial lineages were significantly different among biogeographical locations. Phylogenetic analyses of the 54 bacterial sequences derived from the four C. taxifolia individuals resulted in a well-resolved tree with high bootstrap support. The topologies of the beta Proteobacteria and CFB mirror the geographical sources of their algal hosts. Bacterial-algal associations provide an identification tool that may have wide application for the detection of marine invasions.	2001	10	10.1046/j.1365-294X.2001.01245.x
Portner, HO	Climate change and temperature-dependent biogeography: oxygen limitation of thermal tolerance in animals	NATURWISSENSCHAFTEN	Recent years have shown a rise in mean global temperatures and a shift in the geographical distribution of ectothermic animals. For a cause and effect analysis the present paper discusses those physiological processes limiting thermal tolerance. The lower heat tolerance in metazoa compared with unicellular eukaryotes and bacteria suggests that a complex systemic rather than molecular process is limiting in metazoa. Whole-animal aerobic scope appears as tho first process limited at low and high temperatures, linked to the progressively insufficient capacity of circulation and ventilation. Oxygen levels in body fluids may decrease, reflecting excessive oxygen demand at high temperatures or insufficient aerobic capacity of mitochondria at low temperatures. Aerobic scope falls at temperatures beyond the thermal optimum and vanishes at low or high critical temperatures when transition to an anaerobic mitochondrial metabolism occurs. The adjustment of mitochondrial densities on top of parallel molecular or membrane adjustments appears crucial for maintaining aerobic scope and for shining thermal tolerance. In conclusion, the capacity of oxygen delivery matches full aerobic scope only within the thermal optimum. At temperatures outside this range, only time-limited survival is supported by residual aerobic scope, then anaerobic metabolism and finally molecular protection by heat shock proteins and antioxidative defence. In a cause and effect hierarchy, the progressive increase in oxygen limitation at extreme temperatures may even enhance oxidative and denaturation stress. As a corollary, capacity limitations at a complex level of organisation, the oxygen delivery system, define thermal tolerance Limits before molecular functions become disturbed.	2001	88	
Grayston, SJ; Griffith, GS; Mawdsley, JL; Campbell, CD; Bardgett, RD	Accounting for variability in soil microbial communities of temperate upland grassland ecosystems	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	This study aimed to determine the factors which regulate soil microbial community organisation and function in temperate upland grassland ecosystems. Soil microbial biomass (C-mic), activity (respiration and potential carbon utilisation) and community structure (phospholipid fatty acid (PLFA) analysis, culturing and community level physiological profiles (CLPP) (Biolog*)) were measured across a gradient of three upland grassland types; Festuca-Agrostis-Galium grassland (unimproved grassland, National Vegetation Classification (NVC) - U4a); Festuca-Agrostis-Galium grassland, Holcus-Trifolium sub-community (semi-improved grassland, NVC - U4b): Lolium-Cynosurus grassland (improved grassland, NVC - MG6) at three sites in different biogeographic areas of the UK over a period of 1 year. Variation in C-mic. was mainly due to grassland type and site (accounting for 55% variance, v, in the data). C-mic was significantly (P < 0.001) high in the unimproved grassland at Torridon (237.4 g C m(-2) cf. 81.2 g C m(-2) in semi- and 63.8 g C m(-2) in improved grasslands) and Sourhope (114.6 g C m(-2) cf. in 44.8 g C m(-2) semi- and 68.3 g C m(-2) in improved grasslands) and semi-improved grassland at Abergwyngregyn (76.0 g C m(-2) cf. 41.7 g C m(-2) in un- and 58.3 g C m(-2) in improved grasslands). C-mic showed little temporal variation (v = 3.7%). Soil microbial activity, measured as basal respiration was also mainly affected by grassland type and site(n = 32%). In contrast to C-mic, respiration was significantly(P < 0.001) high in the improved grassland at Sourhope (263.4 h(-1)m(-2) cf. 79.61 h(-1)m(-2) in semi- and 203.9 1 h(-1)m(-2) unimproved grasslands) and Abergwyngregyn (198.81h(-1)m(-2) cf. 173.71 h(-1)m(-2) in semi- and 88.21 h(-1)m(-2) unimproved grasslands). Microbial activity, measured as potential carbon utilisation, agreed with the respiration measurements and was significantly (P < 0.001) high in the improved grassland at all three sites (A(590) 0.14 cf. 0.09 in semi- and 0.07 in unimproved grassland). However, date of sampling also had a significant (P < 0.001) impact on C utilisation potential (v = 24.7%) with samples from April 1997 having highest activity at all three sites. Variation in microbial community structure was due, predominantly, to grassland type (average v = 23.6% for bacterial and fungal numbers and PLFA) and date of sampling (average v = 39.7% for bacterial and fungal numbers and PLFA). Numbers of culturable bacteria and bacterial PLFA were significantly (P < 0.001) high in the improved grassland at all three sites. Fungal populations were significantly (P < 0.01) high in the unimproved grassland at Sourhope and Abergwyngregyn. The results demonstrate a shift in soil microbial community structure from one favouring fungi to one favouring bacteria as grassland improvement increased. Numbers of bacteria and fungi were also significantly (P < 0.001) higher in August than any other sampling date. Canonical variate analysis (CVA) of the carbon utilisation data significantly (P < 0.05) differentiated microbial communities from the three grassland types. mainly due to greater utilisation of sugars and citric acid in the improved grasslands compared to greater utilisation of carboxylic acids, phenolics and neutral amino acids in the unimproved grasslands, possibly reflecting substrate availability in these grasslands. Differences in C-mic, activity and community structure between grassland types were robust over time. In addition, broad scale measures of microbial growth and activity (C-mic and respiration) showed little temporal variation compared to measures of soil microbial community structure, which varied quantitatively with respect to environmental variables (temperature, moisture) and plant productivity. hence substrate supply. (C) 2001 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.	2001	33	10.1016/S0038-0717(00)00194-2
Johnson, KP; Drown, DM; Clayton, DH	A data based parsimony method of cophylogenetic analysis	ZOOLOGICA SCRIPTA	Phylogenies of closely interacting groups, such as hosts and parasites, are seldom completely congruent. Incongruence can arise from biologically meaningful differences in the histories of the two groups, or can be generated by artifactual differences that are merely the result of incorrect phylogenies with weakly supported nodes. We present a method that distinguishes between these sources of incongruence and identifies lineages that are responsible for significant differences between phylogenies. We use the logic of conditional combination in that we first test for statistically significant incongruence using the partition homogeneity test. Then we remove all possible combinations of taxa until a non-significant result of this test is achieved. Finally, we construct a combined evidence phylogeny and then reposition the incongruent taxa. This method produces trees for final comparison using reconciliation methods, but it includes only as many incongruence events as can be statistically justified from the data sets. We apply this method to a host-parasite (gopher-louse) data set and identify many fewer incongruence events than do topology based analyses alone. Our method is broadly applicable to comparisons of phylogenies of interacting taxa, such as hosts and parasites, or mutualists. The method should also be useful for other problems involving comparisons of phylogenies, such as multiple gene trees or cladistic biogeography.	2001	30	10.1046/j.1463-6409.2001.00057.x
Wilkinson, DM	What is the upper size limit for cosmopolitan distribution in free-living microorganisms?	JOURNAL OF BIOGEOGRAPHY	A comparison of restate amoebae assemblages from the Arctic and Antarctic (areas of similar habitat a maximum distance apart) is used to try and answer the question What is the upper size limit for cosmopolitan distribution in free-living microbes? Species restricted to either the Arctic or Antarctic exhibited sizes up to 230 mum while the largest cosmopolitan species was 135 mum in size. Comparison of the restate assemblages using a multivariate classificatory technique (TWINSPAN) also suggested more restricted distribution for the larger species. There was a negative relationship between species size and number of sites at which it was recorded (r(s) = -0.261, P < 0.05), with all the more widespread species having a size of below 100 <mu>m. It is suggested that for restate amoebae cosmopolitan distributions become common below 100-150 mum. This suggests that most species of restate (indeed most free-living microbes) have low species richness because of lack of opportunities for allopatric speciation as most are below 100 Irm and so geographical isolation is unlikely. It is suggested that if this is correct, only the largest free-living microbes (> 150 mum) are likely to be of conservation concern because of their smaller ranges. However, I point out that currently different studies are giving very different answers to the question, how ubiquitous and species rich are free-living microbes? The subject requires further work to try and reconcile these different results.	2001	28	10.1046/j.1365-2699.2001.00518.x
Clark, JW; Hossain, S; Burnside, CA; Kambhampati, S	Coevolution between a cockroach and its bacterial endosymbiont: a biogeographical perspective	PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY B-BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES	Cryptocercus are subsocial, xylophagous cockroaches that live in temperate forests. Like other cockroaches, Cryptocercus harbour endosymbiotic bacteria in their fat bodies. Two species of Cryptocercus occur in the palacarctic, one each in eastern Russia and south-central China. In the USA, there are five species: one in the north-west and four in the south-east. Little is known about the relationship between the Eurasian and North American Cryptocercus or the causes of the disjunct distribution. Here, a molecular phylogeny for six out of the seven Cryptocercus species and their endosymbionts is inferred in an attempt to understand the evolution and biogeography of the genus. Our analysis showed that the North American Cryptocercus are monophyletic, suggesting that a single colonization event was followed by vicariance. There was complete concordance between the host and endosymbiont phylogenetic trees. Divergence estimates based on endosymbiont DNA sequences suggested that the palaearctic and nearctic Cryptocercus diverged 70-115 million years (Myr) ago and the eastern- and western-USA species diverged 53-88 Myr ago. These divergence estimates were correlated with biogeographical events, and a hypothesis is presented to explain the current distribution of Cryptocercus. Our findings suggest that Cryptocercus has had a long evolutionary history dating back to the Jurassic.	2001	268	
Holmer, LE; Popov, LE; Koneva, SP; Bassett, MG	Special papers in palaeontology no. 65 - Cambrian - Early ordovician brachiopods from Malyi Karatau, the Western Balkhash Region, and Tien Shan, Central Asia	CAMBRIAN - EARLY ORDOVICIAN BRACHIOPODS FROM MALYI KARATAU, THE WESTERN BALKHASH REGION, AND TIEN SHAN, CENTRAL ASIA	Carbonate platform deposits of the Shabakty Group in the Malyi Karatau Range of southern Kazakhstan contain rich brachiopod faunas of early Cambrian (Botomian)-early Ordovician (Arenig) age. Seven biostratigraphically successive assemblages are defined across this interval. Four further discrete microbrachiopod assemblages occur in Middle-Upper Cambrian sequences of various adjacent Central Asian regions, including the Suukadyr Mountains of the southern Betpak-Dala Desert (Darbaza Formation), the western side of Lake Balkhash (Zhalgyz Formation), north-west Balkhash (Sarykumy Formation), the Kostek Range of North Tien Shan (Karagajly Formation), and the Moldotau Range in Central Tien Shan (Karadzhorga Formation). Linguliformean (organophosphatic-shelled) stocks are dominant, comprising 74 of the 88 described species. In a total of 55 identified genera, 47 are linguliformeans and eight are rhynchonelliformeans. Diencobolus is defined as a new linguliformean,genus, and there are 11 new species of linguliformeans, referred to the lingulides Notiobolus indefinitus, Canalilatus? major, Mirilingula postuma, Diencobolus simplex, Canthylotreta atasuica, Dactylotreta septata, Picnotreta karakichiensis, Stilpnotreta minuta, Pomeraniotreta obtusa, Kleithriatreta kostekensis, and Eoscaphelasma? delicata. Twenty-four taxa are described under open nomenclature. Brachiopods from different segments of the Central Asian tectonic collage have different biogeographical signatures. In the early Cambrian, Malyi Karatau was probably part of the Yangtse Plate (South China). Middle Cambrian affinities were with East Gondwana (eastern Australia), but by the end of the mid Cambrian westward drift introduced links with Baltica and Laurentia. Balkhash and Tien Shan terranes retained East Gondwanan relationships throughout the Cambrian.	2001		
Mitchell, EAD; Gilbert, D; Butler, A; Grosvernier, P; Albinsson, C; Rydin, H; Heijmans, MMPD; Hoosbeek, MR; Greenup, A; Foot, J; Saarinen, T; Vasander, H; Gobat, JM	Can testate amoebae (Protozoa) and other micro-organisms help to overcome biogeographic bias in large scale global change research?	GLOBAL CHANGE AND PROTECTED AREAS	To monitor global change, large scale long term studies are needed. Such studies often focus on vegetation, but most plant species have limited distribution areas. Micro-organisms by contrast are mostly cosmopolitan in their distributions. To study the relationships between organisation groups, we analysed the testate amoebae (Protozoa), vegetation, and water chemistry of five Sphagnum peatlands across Europe. Inter-site differences were more pronounced for the vegetation than for testate amoebae species assemblage. Testate amoebae represent a useful tool in multi-site studies and environmental monitoring of peatlands because: 1) the number of species is much higher than for plants, 2) most species are cosmopolitan and are therefore less affected by biogeographical distribution patterns than plants; thus differences in restate amoebae assemblages can be interpreted primarily in terms of ecology, 3) restate amoebae can be used to analyse and monitor small scale (cm) gradients that play a major role in the functioning of peatland ecosystems. We further studied the effect of elevated CO2 on microbial communities in the same peatlands. Elevated COL increased the biomass of heterotrophic bacteria and decreased the biomass of medium size protozoa (mostly small restate amoebae). These effects suggest changes in community functioning that may have feedback effects on other components of the ecosystem.	2001	9	
Saavedra, B; Simonetti, JA	New records of Dromiciops gliroides (Microbiotheria : Microbiotheriidae) and Geoxus valdivianus (Rodentia : Muridae) in central Chile: their implications for biogeography and conservation	MAMMALIA		2001	65	
Cho, JC; Tiedje, JM	Biogeography and degree of endemicity of fluorescent Pseudomonas strains in soil	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Fluorescent Pseudomonas strains were isolated from 38 undisturbed pristine soil samples from 10 sites on four continents, A total of 248 isolates were confirmed as Pseudomonas sensu stricto by fluorescent pigment production and group-specific 16S ribosomal DNA (rDNA) primers, These isolates were analyzed by three molecular typing methods with different levels of resolution: 16S rDNA restriction analysis (ARDRA), 16S-23S rDNA intergenic spacer-restriction fragment length polymorphism (ITS-RFLP) analysis, and repetitive extragenic palindromic PCR genomic fingerprinting with a BOX primer set (BOX-PCR), All isolates showed very similar ARDRA patterns, as expected. Some ITS-RFLP types were also found at every geographic scale, although some ITS-RFLP types were unique to the site of origin, indicating weak endemicity at this level of resolution. Using a similarity value of 0.8 or more after cluster analysis of BOX-PCR fingerprinting patterns to define the same genotypes, we identified 85 unique fluorescent Pseudomonas genotypes in our collection, There were no overlapping genotypes between sites as well as continental regions, indicating strict site endemism, The genetic distance between isolates as determined by degree of dissimilarity in BOX-PCR patterns was meaningfully correlated to the geographic distance between the isolates sites of origin, Also, a significant positive spatial autocorrelation of the distribution of the genotypes was observed among distances of <197 km, and significant negative autocorrelation was observed between regions. Hence, strong endemicity of fluorescent Pseudomonas genotypes was observed, suggesting that these heterotrophic soil bacteria are not globally mixed.	2000	66	10.1128/AEM.66.12.5448-5456.2000
Vincent, WF	Evolutionary origins of Antarctic microbiota: invasion, selection and endemism	ANTARCTIC SCIENCE	Increasing interest in the ecological roles, conservation and biotechnological potential of Antarctic microbiota has focused attention on their biodiversity and evolutionary origins. Antarctic microbial ecosystems provide useful models for general questions in evolutionary ecology given the relative isolation of the South Polar Region, the severe biological constraints imposed by the polar environment, and the absence of higher plants and animals in some Antarctic habitats. Sealed environments such as Lake Vostok and the overlying East Antarctic ice sheet provide unique, natural culture collections for studying microorganisms that have been isolated from the global gene pool over timescales of evolutionary significance. Most Antarctic environments, however, continue to receive microbial propagules from outside the region, as indicated by spore trap data, the microflora found in Antarctic snow and ice, the colonising taxa at geothermal sites, and the high frequency of apparently cosmopolitan species in most habitats. Differences in environmental stability and selection pressure among environments are likely to influence the degree of adaptive radiation and microbial endemism. The latter seems greater in the Southern Ocean by comparison with non-marine ecosystems of Antarctica, although there is some evidence of endemic species in highly specialised niches on the continent such. as in the endolithic habitat and saline lakes. Analytical techniques such as 16S rDNA sequencing and DNA-DNA hybridisation are beginning to provide new insights into the genetic affinities and biodiversity of Antarctic microbiota, and are leading to a more rigorous evaluation of microbial endemism.	2000	12	
Vogel, K; Gektidis, M; Golubic, S; Kiene, WE; Radtke, G	Experimental studies on microbial bioerosion at Lee Stocking Island, Bahamas and One Tree Island, Great Barrier Reef, Australia: implications for paleoecological reconstructions	LETHAIA	Different kinds of experimental calcareous substrates were exposed at Lee Stocking Island (Bahamas) and One Tree Island (Great Barrier Reef, Australia) to study which endolithic bacteria, algae and fungi contribute to bioerosion and what their bioerosion rates are. The sites at Lee Stocking Island were several leeward shallow water and several windward shallow and deep-water positions (from the Acropora palmata reef at 2 m down to 275 m depth). At One Tree Island, the experiments were conducted in patch reefs treated with P and N to study the influence of mineral nutrients on bioerosion. The exposure periods ranged from 1 week to 2 years. The micritic carbonate substrates exposed on Lee Stocking Island contained 6 genera with 15 species of cyanobacteria, green and red algae, and different kinds of microendolithic heterotrophs. The mean values of bioerosion rates measured between 1 to 2 g/m(2)/y at 275 m and 520 g/m(2)/y at one of the leeward sites. The composition of the endolithic community and the bioerosion rates changed over time. At One Tree Island, shell pieces of Tridacna were used as substrate exposed for 5 months to endolith activity. Five genera and 6 species of cyanobacteria, green and red algae and different kinds of heterotrophic microendoliths were found with bioerosion rates of 20-30 g/m(2)/y. There are differences in abundance of taxa between Lee Stocking Island and One Tree Island. The introduction of nutrients had no apparent impact on the microborer community. Controlling factors for the distribution and abundance of microborers are mainly light, but also the kind of substrate and, possibly, the biogeographic position. The results support the paleoecological importance of microendoliths.	2000	33	
Hagstrom, A; Pinhassi, J; Zweifel, UL	Biogeographical diversity among marine bacterioplankton	AQUATIC MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	The phylogenetic diversity of bacteria isolated on solid media from the Baltic Sea, Mediterranean Sea, Southern California Eight, Skagerrak, Weddell Sea (ice) and Andaman Sea was investigated by means of 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis. Of the 128 sequenced isolates, 52% showed similarity on the species level to previously reported bacteria, while as many as 18% showed a sequence similarity below 93%, which in the closest case would represent difference at the genus level. A majority of the isolated gamma-Proteobacteria could be assigned to known species, while half of the alpha-Proteobacteria were only identified to the genus level. Bacteria affiliated with the Flexibacter-Cytophaga-Bacteroides phylum showed the lowest levels of similarity to previously sequenced bacteria, mainly representing novel genera. Closely related isolates most often originated from the same geographic area. Nevertheless, our data also demonstrated that most genera have closely related representatives widely distributed between different sea areas. Isolates related to environmental clones, with a sequence similarity above the tentative genus level, were found in 51 cases, of which 17 were more similar to clones than to cultured bacteria. From this result we concluded that a large proportion of the great species richness of marine bacteria, found by culture-independent techniques, is likely to be verified through information from live and functional bacteria.	2000	21	10.3354/ame021231
Gebruk, AV; Chevaldonne, P; Shank, T; Lutz, RA; Vrijenhoek, RC	Deep-sea hydrothermal vent communities of the Logatchev area (14 degrees 45  N, Mid-Atlantic Ridge): diverse biotopes and high biomass	JOURNAL OF THE MARINE BIOLOGICAL ASSOCIATION OF THE UNITED KINGDOM	Results from recent biological studies (including three Alvin dives in July 1997) of the southernmost deep-sea hydrothermal area known on the Mid-Atlantic Ridge (MAR), the Logatchev hydrothermal area, are described. The: Logatchev; area includes three vent fields, each with a different geological setting corresponding to: (1) a large sulphide mound with smoking craters; (2) an active chimney complex (known as Irina-2); and (3) a diffuse flow through soft sediment (Anyas Garden). Hydrothermal communities found at these fields differ considerably: Anyas Garden is dominated by vesicomyid clams, Ectenagena sp. aff. kaikoi, Irina-2 by mytilid mussels, Bathymodiolus sp. aff. puteoserpentis, with swarms of shrimps and other rich associated fauna, whereas on the main mound the fauna as a whole is less abundant and less diverse. This is the first record of a living clam population on the MAR. Other bivalves found on the clam field included thyasirids, Thyasira (Parathyasira) spp., not reported previously from deep-sea hot vent communities. The biomass on the mussel bed at Irina-2 exceeds 70 kg m(-2) (wet weight with shells) and is the highest known on the MAR. The large shrimp population at Irina-2 includes swarms of Rimicaris exoculata. A diverse shrimp fauna (including a new species Alvinocaris so. aff. muricola) on the mussel bed is dominated by Mirocaris keldyshi. Overall the Logatchev area is dominated by mussels which may be attributable to the presence of both methane-oxidizing (dominant type) and sulphur-oxidizing bacterial symbionts in their gills. The diversity of vent organisms and biotopes at Logatchev appears to be the highest on the MAR.	2000	80	10.1017/S0025315499002088
Rapoport, EH	Remarks on the biogeography of land invasions	REVISTA CHILENA DE HISTORIA NATURAL	The percentage of exotic plant species (PES) at large geographic scales is presented in form of political maps (Texas and North America) and of isoline maps (Great Britain). in the latter case it is possible to visualize that higher proportions of alien invaders are present in urban and industrial areas as well as in maritime ports rather than in agricultural lands. Consequently, it is possible to predict that the ratio of urban to agricultural species will continue to increase in the future. Based on a survey of 200 world floras, a multiple regression analysis is presented in order to determine the importance of different factors in the yield of PES values. The contribution to the total variance was: disturbance degree 55 %; total species richness 14%; insularity 9%, and latitude 2%. Neither the mean annual precipitation nor the mean annual temperature showed a significant contribution to the total variance. The predominance of Europe as the main deliverer of weeds to other temperate regions in the world has been attributed to the aggressive or imperialistic geopolitics of this region, and to the construction of the first international oceanic fleet. Then are reasons to believe, however, that the great size of Eurasia also played a role in the success of its weedy invasive flora. Since several authors found a weak positive correlation between the radial rate of dispersal and the invading success in plants, a table collecting 153 data allowed a first, tentative comparison among different taxa. The mean dispersal rates were 64.2 for microorganisms; 48.5 for invertebrates, 17.2 for vertebrates, 6.9 for plants, and 0.19 km/yr for palynological registers. A discussion about the significance of these results is included. An alternative way to compare invasive ability, especially among agricultural pests, is by means of an index of cosmopolitanism (C*) which varied as follows: 0.642 for phytopathogens, 0.439 for insects and 0.259 for weeds. Weeds are 15 times, agricultural insects 26 times and phytopathogens 37 times more cosmopolitan than, say, common mammals, taken as an example for comparison. Finally, although animals (invertebrates plus vertebrates) show a higher mean dispersal rate than plants (field observations plus ancient pollen registers), it seems that animals are better colonizers of pristine or scarcely disturbed communities, while plants are more successful in anthropic habitats.	2000	73	
Lee, WJ; Patterson, DJ	Heterotrophic flagellates (Protista) from marine sediments of Botany Bay, Australia	JOURNAL OF NATURAL HISTORY	Heterotrophic flagellates (protozoa) occurring in the marine sediments at Botany Bay, Australia are reported. Among the 87 species from 43 genera encountered in this survey are 13 new taxa: Cercomonas granulatus n. sp., Clautriavia cavus n. sp., Heteronema larseni n. sp., Notosolenus adamas n. sp., Notosolenus brothernis n. sp., Notosolenus hemicircularis n. sp., Notosolenus lashue n, sp., Notosolenus pyriforme n. sp., Petalomonas intortus n. sp., Petalomonas iugosus n. sp., Petalomonas labrum n. sp., Petalomonas planus n. sp. and Petalomonas virgatus n. sp.: and seven new combinations, Carpediemonas bialata n. comb., Dinema platysomum n. comb., Petalomonas calycimonoides nom. nov., Petalomonas christeni nom. nov., Petalomonas physaloides n. comb., Petalomonas quinquecarinata n. comb. and Petalomonas spinifera a n. comb. Most flagellates described here appear to be cosmopolitan. We are unable to assess if the new species are endemic because of the lack of intensive studies elsewhere.	2000	34	10.1080/002229300299435
Wilkinson, DM; Davis, SR	Rapid assessments of microbial biodiversity using relationships between genus and species richness. Studies on testate amoebae	ACTA PROTOZOOLOGICA	This study demonstrates a high correlation between species richness and genera richness for testate amoebae, both for modem biogeographical data sets and a paleontological data set. Such patterns have previously been described for many groups of multicellular organisms, such a relationship may not have been expected for testate due to the plasticity of morphological phenotypes. It suggests a possible method for rapid assessments of microbial diversity which could be of particular use to general ecologists working in environmental assessment or paleoecological studies.	2000	39	
Di Meo, CA; Wilbur, AE; Holben, WE; Feldman, RA; Vrijenhoek, RC; Cary, SC	Genetic variation among endosymbionts of widely distributed vestimentiferan tubeworms	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Vestimentiferan tubeworms thriving in sulfidic deep-sea hydrothermal vents and cold seeps are constrained by their nutritional reliance on chemoautotrophic endosymbionts. In a recent phylogenetic study using 16S ribosomal DNA, we found that endosymbionts from vent and seep habitats form two distinct clades,vith little variation within each clade. In the present study, we used two different approaches to assess the genetic variation among biogeographically distinct vestimentiferan symbionts, DNA sequences were obtained for the noncoding, internal transcribed spacer (ITS) regions of the rRNA operons of symbionts associated with six different genera of vestimentiferan tubeworms. ITS sequences from endosymbionts of host genera collected from different habitats and widely distributed vent sites were surprisingly conserved. Because the ITS region was not sufficient for distinguishing endosymbionts from different habitats or locations, we used a DNA fingerprinting technique, repetitive extragenic-palindrome PCR (REP-PCR), to reveal differences in the distribution of repetitive sequences in the genomes of the bacterial endosymbionts. Most of the endosymbionts displayed unique REP-PCR patterns. A cladogram generated from these fingerprints reflected relationships that may be influenced by a variety of factors, including host genera, geographic location, and bottom type.	2000	66	10.1128/AEM.66.2.651-658.2000
Andrews, JH; Harris, RF	The ecology and biogeography of microorganisms of plant surfaces	ANNUAL REVIEW OF PHYTOPATHOLOGY	The vast surface of the plant axis, stretching from root tips occasionally buried deeply in anoxic sediment, to apical meristems held far aloft, provides an extraordinarily diverse habitat for microorganisms. Each zone has to a greater or lesser extent its own cohort of microorganisms, in aggregate comprising representatives from all three primary domains of life-Bacteria, Archaea, and Eucarya. While the plant sets the stage for its microbial inhabitants, they, in turn, have established varied relationships with their large partner. These associations range from relatively inconsequential (transient epiphytic saprophytes) to substantial (epiphytic commensals, mutualistic symbionts, endophytes, or pathogens). Through recent technological breakthroughs, a much better perspective is beginning to emerge on the nature of these relationships, but still relatively little is known about the role of epiphytic microbial associations in the life of the plant.	2000	38	10.1146/annurev.phyto.38.1.145
Roig-Junent, S	The subtribes and genera of the tribe Broscini (Coleoptera : Carabidae): Cladistic analysis, taxonomic treatment, and biogeographical consideration	BULLETIN OF THE AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY	Phylogenetic relationships of the genera of the tribe Broscini (Carabidae) are postulated based on cladistic methods. Seventy-three morphological characters were examined in 88 species, arranged in 41 genera and subgenera, and with the related tribes Melaenini and Apotomini as outgroups. In all the obtained cladograms, the genera are grouped in five clades recognized as the basis for a new subtribal classification: the Oriental-Palearctic-Neotropical Axonyina, new subtribe (type genus, Axonya Andrewes) with 3 genera; the Holarctic-Oriental subtribe Broscina (type genus Broscus Panzer) with 9 genera; the south temperate Australian-Neotropical Nothobroscina new subtribe (type genus Nothobroscus Roig-Junent and Ball) with 10 genera; the south temperate Neotropical Barypina (type genus Barypus Dejean) with 2 genera; and the south temperate Australian-Neotropical Creobiina (type genus Creobius Guerin-Meneville) with Il genera. Species groups within diverse genera Barypus, Eurylychnus Bates, and Promecoderus Dejean were treated as terminal units to test monophyly of these genera. Results of the analysis show that only Promecoderus is not monophyletic, as presently structured. Keys and diagnoses are provided for the genera of Broscini, and all taxonomically important structures are illustrated. Genital features of males and females are described for the first time for several genera. The barypine genus Microbarypus, with its type species M. silvicola (type locality Alto Queulat, Aisen, Chile) is described as new. The species Percosoma concolor Sloane, P. substriatum Moore, and P. montanum Castelnau are transferred to the genus Chylnus. Type species are designated for Adotela Castelnau (Adotela concolor Castelnau), Gnathoxys Westwood (Gnathoxys granularis Westwood), and Cerotalis Castelnau (Cerotalis substriata Castelnau). The four main biogeographical hypotheses proposed to explain Broscini distribution are discussed. Recent discovery of new Neotropical genera, as Nothobroscus Roig-Junent and Bah and Rawlinsius Davidson and Ball, together with the phylogeny of Broscini, lead to a different biogeographic hypothesis. Broscini can be considered a Pangaeic tribe originating in lower Jurassic times when there was a land connection between South America and North America on the Pacific margin. In broad terms, the biogeographic pattern of Broscini may be explained by the current hypothesis of the breakup of Pangaea.	2000		
Burnell, AM; Stock, SP	Heterorhabditis, Steinernema and their bacterial symbionts - lethal pathogens of insects	NEMATOLOGY	The entomopathogenic nematodes (EPN) Heterorhabditis and Steinernema together with their symbiont bacteria Photorhabdus and Xenorhabdus, respectively, are obligate and lethal parasites of insects. EPN can provide effective biological control of some important lepidopteran, dipteran and coleopteran pests of commercial crops and they are amenable to large-scale culture in liquid fermenters. They are unique among rhabditids in having a symbiotic relationship with an enteric bacterium species. The bacterial symbiont is required to kill the insect host and to digest the host tissues, thereby providing suitable nutrient conditions for nematode growth and development. This review describes the general biology of EPN and their symbionts and gives an overview of studies to date on EPN biodiversity, biogeography and phylogeny. The impetus for research in EPN and their symbionts has come about because of their biological control potential, with much of the focus in EPN research having been on applied aspects relating to pest control. However EPN and their symbionts are increasingly being viewed as exciting subjects for basic research in the areas of ecology biodiversity, evolution, biochemistry, symbiosis and molecular genetics. Much progress has been made over the past 20 years in our understanding of the basic biology and genetics of EPN and their symbionts. We are now entering a new phase in which the tools of molecular genetics are being increasingly used to address a range of biological questions in EPN research. The knowledge gained from this endeavour should ensure that EPN will become even more effective biopesticides and should also ensure that EPN and their symbionts gain prominence as unique and intrinsically interesting biological systems.	2000	2	10.1163/156854100508872
Antezana, T	Plankton of Southern Chilean fjords: trends and linkages	SCIENTIA MARINA	The present paper compiles and reviews past and recent results from Magellan and Fuegian fjords for an overview of the planktonic assemblage there. It first examines linkages to local, adjacent and remote environments. The plankton assemblage presents deviations from the biota of the Magellan biogeographic Province, where the occasional presence of Antarctic species is related to oceanographic phenomena at the Polar Front. Complex bathymetric and hydrographic features within the fjords suggest that the plankton is rather isolated. Adaptations and constraints for population survival, and the role of diel migrators and gregarious zooplankters with regard to bentho-pelagic coupling are discussed. Results on seasonal differences in the plankton of the largest and most isolated basin of the Strait of Magellan are compiled. In spring the plankton was dominated by large diatoms suggesting a short food chain where most of the phytoplankton bloom goes to the bottom, to the meroplankton and to a few dominant holoplankters. In summer, the phytoplankton was dominated by pico- and nanophytoplankton suggesting a more complex food web mediated by a bacterial loop. High abundance of holo- and meroplanktonic larvae coincided with spring blooming conditions.	1999	63	
Eggleton, P; Homathevi, R; Jones, DT; MacDonald, JA; Jeeva, D; Bignell, DE; Davies, RG; Maryati, M	Termite assemblages, forest disturbance and greenhouse gas fluxes in Sabah, East Malaysia	PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY B-BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES	A synthesis is presented of sampling work conducted under a UK government-funded Darwin Initiative grant undertaken predominantly within the Danum Valley Conservation Area (DVCA), Sabah, East Malaysia. The project concerned the assemblage structure, gas physiology and landscape gas fluxes of termites in pristine and two ages of secondary, dipterocarp forest. The DVCA termite fauna is typical of the Sunda region, dominated by Termes-group soil-feeders and Nasutitermitinae. Selective logging appears to have relatively little effect on termite assemblages, although soil-feeding termites may be moderately affected by this level of disturbance. Species composition changes, but to a small extent when considered against the background level of compositional differences within the Sunda region. Physiologically the assemblage is very like others that have been studied, although there are some species that do not fit on the expected body size-metabolic rate curve. As elsewhere, soil-feeders and soil-wood interface-feeders tend to produce more methane. As with the termite assemblage characteristics, gross gas and energy fluxes do not differ significantly between logged and unlogged sites. Although gross methane fluxes are high, all the soils at DVCA were methane sinks, suggesting that methane oxidation by methanotrophic bacteria was a more important process than methane production by gut archaea. This implies that methane production by termites in South-East Asia is not contributing significantly to the observed increase in levels of methane production worldwide. Biomass density species richness, clade complement and energy flow were much lower at DVCA than at a directly comparable site in southern Cameroon. This is probably due to the different biogeographical histories of the areas.	1999	354	10.1098/rstb.1999.0521
Rothschild, LJ	The influence of UV radiation on protistan evolution	JOURNAL OF EUKARYOTIC MICROBIOLOGY	Utraviolet radiation has provided an evolutionary challenge to life on Earth. Recent increases in surficial ultraviolet B fluxes have focused attention on the role of UV radiation in protistan ecology, cancer, and DNA damage. Exploiting this new wealth of data, I examine the possibility that ultraviolet radiation may have played a significant role in the evolution of the first eukaryotes, that is, protists. Protists probably arose well before the formation of a significant ozone shield, and thus were probably subjected to substantial ultraviolet A, ultraviolet B, and ultraviolet C fluxes early in their evolution. Evolution consists of the generation of heritable variations and the subsequent selection of these variants. Ultraviolet radiation has played a role both as a mutagen and as a selective agent. In its role as a mutagen, it may have been crucial in the origin of sex and as a driver for molecular evolution. As a selective agent, its influence has been broad. Discussed in this paper are the influence of ultraviolet radiation on biogeography, photosynthesis, and desiccation resistance.	1999	46	10.1111/j.1550-7408.1999.tb06074.x
Childs, JE; Ellis, BA; Nicholson, WL; Kosoy, M; Sumner, JW	Shared vector-borne zoonoses of the Old World and New World: home grown or translocated?	SCHWEIZERISCHE MEDIZINISCHE WOCHENSCHRIFT	Humans inhabiting the Old World and New World share a wide variety of pathogens. Processes that result in the disjunct biogeographic distribution of pathogens with common vertebrate reservoirs or vectors are more difficult to unravel than those influencing the distribution of infections spread only through human-to-human transmission. The origins of species and complexes of tick-borne bacteria are unclear. The agent of Lyme borreliosis may have speciated in the New World following geographical isolation of ticks harboring ancestral spirochetes; the subsequent spread to Europe of B. burgdorferi sensu stricto may have occurred within historical times. Other tick-borne agents, such as the ehrlichiae causing human granulocytic ehrlichiosis, are genetically very similar in the Old World and New World. As the taxonomic distinctions among these related agents of human and veterinary importance appear increasingly blurred, the processes leading to the current discontinuous geographic distributions will also become the source of continuing speculation. Accumulating data suggest an Old World origin for a group of bacteria that include B. elizabethae, a human pathogen first identified from the New World. The potential public health significance of these newly described organisms is undefined, but of international interest as their vertebrate reservoir has been introduced throughout the world.	1999	129	
Moeseneder, MM; Arrieta, JM; Muyzer, G; Winter, C; Herndl, GJ	Optimization of terminal-restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis for complex marine bacterioplankton communities and comparison with denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	The potential of terminal-restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) and the detection of operational taxonomic units (OTUs) by capillary electrophoresis (CE) to characterize marine bacterioplankton communities was compared with that of denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE), A protocol has been developed to optimize the separation and detection of OTUs between 20 and 1,632 bp by using CE and laser-induced fluorescence detection. Additionally, we compared T-RFLP fingerprinting to DGGE optimized for detection of less abundant OTUs. Similar results were obtained with both fingerprinting techniques, although the T-RFLP approach and CE detection of OTUs was more sensitive, as indicated by the higher number of OTUs detected. We tested the T-RFLP fingerprinting technique on complex marine bacterial communities by using the 16S rRNA gene and 16S rRNA as templates for PCR. Samples from the Northern and Middle Adriatic Sea and from the South and North Aegean Sea were compared, Distinct clusters were identifiable for different sampling sites. Thus, this technique is useful for rapid evaluation of the biogeographical distribution and relationships of bacterioplankton communities.	1999	65	
Caron, DA; Lim, EL; Dennett, MR; Gast, RJ; Kosman, C; DeLong, EF	Molecular phylogenetic analysis of the heterotrophic Chrysophyte genus Paraphysomonas (Chrysophyceae), and the design of rRNA-targeted oligonucleotide probes for two species	JOURNAL OF PHYCOLOGY	Nanoflagellate protists are algae and protozoa (2-20 mu m in size) that play important ecological roles in freshwater and marine microbial communities as primary producers and as consumers of prokaryotic and eukaryotic prey. There is little biogeographical information for most of these minute protists despite their significant role in aquatic food webs. In addition, the evolutionary relationships among some of these species and their affinities to other protistan taxa are unclear, These circumstances are largely a consequence of the fact that small protists possess few readily apparent morphological features on which to base taxonomic and phylogenetic schemes and with which to identify them in natural assemblages. As an alternative approach for addressing these issues, we sequenced the small-subunit ribosomal RNA genes of four species of the colorless chrysophyte genus Paraphysomonas. A phylogenetic analysis based on that sequence information was performed, and oligonucleotide probes for two commonly occurring species of Paraphysomonas were designed and tested. Phylogenetic analyses of these four species confirmed the affinity of the genus Paraphysomonas with other chrysophyte species. High sequence similarity among three of the species (P. imperforata Lucas, P. bandaiensis Takahashi, and P. foraminifera Lucas) supported a previous phylogenetic grouping of these species based on the morphology of the scales produced by these species, In particular, sequence similarity between P, imperforata and P. foraminifera indicated that this speciation was a recent evolutionary event. However, a fourth species (P, vestita (Stokes) de Saedeleer) possessing similar scale morphology to P. bandaiensis, P, imperforata, and P. foraminifera showed considerable sequence dissimilarity in comparison to these latter three species. Oligonucleotide probes were successfully designed for the species P, imperforata and P, bandaiensis and applied together with a recently developed quantitative in situ hybridization procedure. The development of species-specific oligonucleotide probes for these nanoflagellate species and their application for counting nanoflagellates in natural water samples provide tools for studying these ecologically important species.	1999	35	10.1046/j.1529-8817.1999.3540824.x
Harland, R; Pudsey, CJ	Dinoflagellate cysts from sediment traps deployed in the Bellingshausen, Weddell and Scotia seas, Antarctica	MARINE MICROPALEONTOLOGY	Dinoflagellate cysts have been recovered from six long-term (1-2 yr) sediment trap moorings deployed in the Bellingshausen, Weddell and Scotia seas, Antarctica. These traps, mostly moored near the sea bed to sample the nepheloid layer, were located both within and to the north of the maximum sea-ice limit. The numbers of cysts, together with the composition of the assemblages, reinforce the importance of the maximum sea-ice limit as a modern biogeographic boundary for the distribution of dinoflagellate cysts. Cysts derived from heterotrophic dinoflagellates make up the highest proportions within the assemblages recovered from the traps. One trap sampled the export production, revealing little difference in cyst flux over those sampling the nepheloid layer. Cyst Bur appears to be highest in areas closest to the Antarctic Convergence, north of the maximum sea-ice limit, and to high nutrient availability. There are, however, differences between the sediment trap assemblages and those recovered from core-top samples at the same or nearby sites. These differences, in the greater number of cysts, and in the higher numbers of round, brown Protoperidinium cysts in the traps, may reflect annual differences in the primary productivity and/or cyst production in the area. In some areas the sediment record may preserve little information about local surface water productivity because of the activity of bottom water currents, for example those arising from the Antarctic Circumpolar Current. (C) 1999 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.	1999	37	10.1016/S0377-8398(99)00016-X
Yeates, GW; Bongers, T	Nematode diversity in agroecosystems	AGRICULTURE ECOSYSTEMS & ENVIRONMENT	The diversity of nematode faunae in agroecosystems and their relationships to soil processes suggests that they are potential bioindicators. However, the effects of plants, soil types and nematode biogeography mean a functional group may be a better indicator than particular nematodes. Traditionally plant-feeding nematodes (e.g., Heteroderidae, Longidoridae) have been used as indicators. Sampling strategies and methods for extracting, identifying, and indexing nematode assemblages are given. Permanent grassland may be regarded as providing a baseline for nematode diversity in a given soil. Current work suggests that the relative abundance of fungal-feeding and bacterial-feeding nematodes may be a sensitive indicator of management changes. Changes in nematode diversity shown by values of the Shannon-Wiener index (H) often reflect environmental differences. The nematode maturity index can provide useful information on the direction of change within a particular soil, and there are prospects that the abundance or proportion of c-p Groups 1 and 2 may have value as a transferable index. Trends following disturbance events can be shown in c-p triangles. Morphologically distinct groups (e.g., Criconematidae, Longidoridae, Mononchoidea) may be useful within regions or soil types but fail to provide a universal indicator. (C)1999 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.	1999	74	10.1016/S0167-8809(99)00033-X
Grandcolas, P	Systematics, endosymbiosis, and biogeography of Cryptocercus clevelandi and C-punctulatus (Blattaria : Polyphagidae) from North America: a phylogenetic perspective	ANNALS OF THE ENTOMOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF AMERICA	Cryptocercus clevelandi Byers and C. punctulatus Scudder have been presented recently by Nalepa et al. [Nalepa, C. A., G. W. Byers, C. Bandi, and M. Sironi. 1997. Description of Cryptocercus clevelandi (Dictyoptera: Cryptocercidae) from the Northwestern United States, molecular analysis of bacterial symbionts in its fat body, and notes on biology, distribution and biogeography. Ann. Entomol. Sec. Am. 90: 426-424] as relict species in North America, belonging to a genus whose origin is hypothesized to be early Tertiary. Earlier phylogenetic studies based on morphology, anatomy, and neuropeptides from corpora cardiaca, however, showed that the genus Cryptocercus belongs to the subfamily Polyphaginae, exhibiting an apical sister-group relationship to the genus Therea. These findings suggest that an early Tertiary origin for Cryptocercus is untenable. The phylogenetic position of Cryptocercus, as well as the correction of several incorrect biogeographical inferences, suggest that the vicariance between East Asian and North American species dates from Miocene at a maximum, and that the vicariance between eastern and western North American species is subsequently a more recent event. The view that Cryptocercus is primitive is thus fallacious and its assumed relict nature is neither substantiated by any recent and robust phylogenetic hypothesis, nor corroborated by paleogeographic or paleoclimatic evidence.	1999	92	
Nalepa, CA; Bandi, C	Phylogenetic status, distribution, and biogeography of Cryptocercus (Dictyoptera : Cryptocercidae)	ANNALS OF THE ENTOMOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF AMERICA	Recent morphological studies on Blattaria, as well as molecular data on both these insects and their fat body bacterial endosymbionts, do not agree with Grandcolass phylogenetic placement of Cryptocercus deep within the Polyphaginae [Grandeolas, P. 1999. Systematics, Endosymbiosis, and Biogeography of Cryptocercus clevelandi and C. punctulatus (Blattaria: Polyphagidae) from North America: a Phylogenetic Perspective. Ann. Entomol. Sec. Am. 92: 285-291]. Therefore, we retain the traditional classification and proposed geographic time frame for evolution of this taxon, which is supported by recent estimations of molecular evolution on endosymbionts (70-25 MYBP) and by geological evidence indicating a window of opportunity for transcontinental movement in North America for an insect with the ecological requirements of Cryptocerucus (65-34 MYBP). Further refinement and integration of these hypotheses with the biogeography of related taxa, awaits the development of a single, phylogenetically based, internationally accepted classification of relevant cockroach genera, and an explicit delineation of the relationships among extant species of Cryptocercus.	1999	92	
Zehr, JP; Voytek, MA	Molecular ecology of aquatic communities: reflections and future directions	HYDROBIOLOGIA	During the 1980s, many new molecular biology techniques were developed, providing new capabilities for studying the genetics and activities of organisms. Biologists and ecologists saw the promise that these techniques held for studying different aspects of organisms, both in culture and in the natural environment. In less than a decade, these techniques were adopted by a large number of researchers studying many types of organisms in diverse environments. Much of the molecular-level information acquired has been used to address questions of evolution, biogeography, population structure and biodiversity. At this juncture, molecular ecologists are poised to contribute to the study of the fundamental characteristics underlying aquatic community structure. The goal of this overview is to assess where we have been, where we are now and what the future holds for revealing the basis of community structure and function with molecular-level information.	1999	401	10.1023/A:1003763117784
Ferrari, VC; Hollibaugh, JT	Distribution of microbial assemblages in the Central Arctic Ocean Basin studied by PCR/DGGE: analysis of a large data set	HYDROBIOLOGIA	Analysis of the biogeographic distributions of bacteria has been limited by potential biases inherent in the isolations required for classical taxonomy and by the time required for phylogenetic analyses. We have attempted to circumvent both of these limitations by using denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) to resolve the products of polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplifications of mixed template DNA isolated from microbial communities. DGGE separates DNA fragments based on their denaturation characteristics, which vary with the nucleotide sequence of the fragment. The banding patterns in the electropherograms were then subjected to similarity analysis using pattern matching and band comparison software. Replication experiments tested the robustness of band patterns within and between gels. Samples were collected from the Central Arctic Ocean basin during April of 1995 on the SCICEX 95 cruise of the USS Cavalla. One hundred samples collected from a depth of 59 m are the focus of this biogeographical analysis. The band identification algorithm of the software identified between 12 and 30 bands (operational taxonomic units, OTUs) per sample (mean: 21.5) with minimal editing. This number approximately doubled with more extensive editing. Four OTUs seemed to be common to most samples. The samples grouped into five major clusters with similarities greater than approximately 80%. Twenty nine samples in one of these clusters were in two branches with internal similarities greater than approximately 90%. These samples had relatively nondescript banding patterns (numerous bands with roughly equal intensity). Another cluster contained 15 samples with distinctive banding patterns dominated by one or two intense bands. These samples were collected in the same general area of the Arctic Ocean (Canada Basin) and may reflect a community response to local environmental conditions.	1999	401	10.1023/A:1003773907789
Caron, DA; Gast, RJ; Lim, EL; Dennett, MR	Protistan community structure: molecular approaches for answering ecological questions	HYDROBIOLOGIA		1999	401	10.1023/A:1003721923719
Staley, JT; Gosink, JJ	Poles apart: Biodiversity and biogeography of sea ice bacteria	ANNUAL REVIEW OF MICROBIOLOGY	This review introduces the subjects of bacterial biodiversity and biogeography. Studies of biogeography are important for understanding biodiversity, the occurrence of threatened species, and the ecological role of free-living and symbiotic prokaryotes. A set of postulates is proposed for biogeography as a guide to determining whether prokaryotes are cosmopolitan (found in more than one geographic location on Earth) or candidate endemic species. The term geovar is coined to define a geographical variety of prokaryote that is restricted to one area on Earth or one host species. This review discusses sea ice bacteriology as a test case for examining bacterial diversity and biogeography. Approximately 7% of Earths surface is covered by sea ice, which is colonized principally by psychrophilic microorganisms. This extensive community of microorganisms, referred to as the sea ice microbial community (SIMCO), contains algae (mostly diatoms), protozoa, and bacteria. Recent investigations indicate that the sea ice bacteria fall into four major phylogenetic groups: the proteobacteria, the Cytophaga-Flavobacterium-Bacteroides (CFB) group, and the high and low mol percent gram-positive bacteria. Archaea associated with sea ice communities have also been reported. Several novel bacterial genera and species have been discovered, including Polaromonas, Polaribacter, Psychroflexus, Gelidibacter, and Octadecabacter; many others await study. Some of the gram-negative sea ice bacteria have among the lowest maximum temperatures for growth known, < 10 degrees C for some strains. The polar sea ice environment is an ideal habitat for studying microbial biogeography because of the dispersal issues involved. Dispersal between poles is problematic because of the long distances and the difficulty of transporting psychrophilic bacteria across the equator. Studies to date indicate that members of some genera occur at both poles; however, cosmopolitan species have not yet been discovered. Additional research on polar sea ice bacteria is needed to resolve this issue and extend our understanding of its microbial diversity.	1999	53	10.1146/annurev.micro.53.1.189
Colwell, RR; Huq, A	Global microbial ecology: biogeography and diversity of Vibrios as a model	JOURNAL OF APPLIED MICROBIOLOGY	An environmental source of cholera was hypothesized as early as the late nineteenth century by Robert Koch, but not proven because of the ability of Vibrio cholera, the causative agent of cholera, to enter a dormant phase between epidemics. Standard bacteriological procedures for isolation of the vibrios from the environmental samples, including water, between epidemics generally were unsuccessful. Vibrio cholera, a marine vibrio requiring salt for growth, enters into a dormant viable but non-culturable stage when conditions are unfavourable for growth and reproduction. The association of V. cholera with plankton, notably copepods, provides evidence for the environmental origin of cholera, as well as an explanation for the sporadic and erratic nature of cholera epidemics. Thus, the association of V. cholera with plankton was established only recently, allowing analysis of epidemic patterns of cholera, especially in those countries where cholera is endemic. The sporadic and erratic nature of cholera epidemics can now be related to climate and climate events, such as El Nino. Since zooplankton have been shown to harbour the bacterium and zooplankton blooms follow phytoplankton blooms, remote sensing can be employed to determine the relationship of cases of cholera with chlorophyll, as well as sea surface temperature (SST), ocean height, and turbidity. Cholera occurs seasonally in Bangladesh with two annual peaks in the number of cases occurring each year. From the data obtained and analysed to date, when the height of the ocean is high and sea surface temperature is also elevated, cholera cases are numerous. When the height is low and sea surface is also low, little or no cholera is recorded. From the examination of data for the 1992-1993 cholera epidemic in India, preliminary comparisons of cholera data for Calcutta show a similar relationship between cholera cases, ocean height and SST. In conclusion, from results of studies of SST, phytoplankton and zooplankton, and their relationships to incidence of cholera, correlation of selected climatological factors and incidence of V. cholera appears to be significant, bringing the potential of predicting conditions conducive to cholera outbreaks closer to reality.	1999	85	
Fujikura, K; Kojima, S; Tamaki, K; Maki, Y; Hunt, J; Okutani, T	The deepest chemosynthesis-based community yet discovered from the hadal zone, 7326 m deep, in the Japan Trench	MARINE ECOLOGY PROGRESS SERIES	A dense community of benthic animals was discovered by the Japanese ROV Kaiko in the hadal zone near the bottom of the Japan Trench, 7326 m deep. The community was dominated by a new species of thyasirid bivalve Maorithyas hadalis. This community appears to be sustained by chemosynthesis (nutrients being derived from reduced compounds within the sediment) for reasons including: a high concentration of sulfur contained in the thyasirid gills; the existence of numerous bacteria-like particles in the gill tissues; a sulfide smell from soft body parts and from collected sediment; the anoxic nature and high sulfide content of the sediments suggested by the dark gray to black color; the occurrence above geologic faults. Thyasirids have also been collected from other chemosynthesis-based communities around Japan, including the Japan Trench, Sagami Bay and the Nankai accretionary prism. Until now, the deepest chemosynthesis-based community known occurred on the Sanriku Escarpment of the Japan Trench, 6437 m deep. This site was dominated by the vesicomyid clam Calyptogena phaseoliformis. The discovery of a chemosynthesis-based community dominated by thyasirid clams from even deeper waters suggests a wider variety of chemosynthesis-based communities exists throughout deep-sea trenches. Additionally, the thyasirid species discussed here differs from other thyasirids by having circular symbionts which appear to exist intracellularly, and by living exposed above the sediment surface.	1999	190	10.3354/meps190017
Springer, MS; Westerman, M; Kavanagh, JR; Burk, A; Woodburne, MO; Kao, DJ; Krajewski, C	The origin of the Australasian marsupial fauna and the phylogenetic affinities of the enigmatic monito del monte and marsupial mole	PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY B-BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES	Alternative hypotheses in higher-level marsupial systematics have different implications for marsupial origins, character evolution, and biogeography. Resolving the position of the South American monito del monte (Order Microbiotheria) is of particular importance in that alternate hypotheses posit sister-group relationships between microbiotheres and taxa with disparate temporal and geographic distributions: pediomyids; didelphids; dasyuromorphians; diprotodontians; all other australidelphians; and all other marsupials. Among Australasian marsupials, the placement of bandicoots is critical; competing views associate bandicoots with particular Australasian taxa (diprotodontians, dasyuromorphians) or outside of a clade that includes all other Australasian forms and microbiotheres. Affinities of the marsupial mole are also unclear. The mole is placed in its own order (Notoryctemorphia) and sister-group relationships have been postulated between it and each of the other Australasian orders. We investigated relationships among marsupial orders by using a data set that included mitochondrial and nuclear genes. Phylogenetic analyses provide support for the association of microbiotheres with Australasian marsupials and an association of the marsupial mole with dasyuromorphs. Statistical tests reject the association of diprotodontians and bandicoots together as well as the monophyly of Australasian marsupials. The origin of the paraphyletic Australasian marsupial fauna may be accounted for by (i) multiple entries of australidelphians into Australia or (ii) bidirectional dispersal of australidelphians between Antarctica and Australia.	1998	265	
Kowalchuk, GA; Bodelier, PLE; Heilig, GHJ; Stephen, JR; Laanbroek, HJ	Community analysis of ammonia-oxidising bacteria, in relation to oxygen availability in soils and root-oxygenated sediments, using PCR, DGGE and oligonucleotide probe hybridisation	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	The rhizosphere of oxygen-releasing wetland plants provides a niche for oxygen-consuming microorganisms such as chemolithotrophic ammonia-oxidising bacteria. These bacteria are adapted to oxygen limitation with respect to their affinity for oxygen, ability to survive periods of anoxia, and immediate response to the appearance of oxygen. In this study the techniques of specific amplification of ammonia oxidiser 16S rDNA fragments by PCR, separation of mixed PCR samples by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE), and band identification by specific hybridisation with oligonucleotide probes were combined to allow for the comparison of the community composition of multiple samples over space and time. DGGE bands of interest were also excised for DNA isolation, reamplification, sequence determination and phylogenetic analysis. We compared monthly samples from both the root zone and the bare sediment of a shallow lake inhabited by the emergent macrophyte Glyceria maxima to determine the seasonal effects that the plant roots and the oxygen availability might have on the beta-subgroup ammonia-oxidiser populations present. Similarly, five soil or sediment samples, varying in oxygen availability, from different locations in the Netherlands were compared. Although the presence of two previously defined Nitrosospira sequence clusters could be differentially detected in the samples examined, there was no evidence for a particular group which was specific to periodically anoxic environments. (C) 1998 Federation of European Microbiological Societies. Published by Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.	1998	27	10.1111/j.1574-6941.1998.tb00550.x
Rusek, J	Biodiversity of Collembola and their functional role in the ecosystem	BIODIVERSITY AND CONSERVATION	More than 6500 species of Collembola are known from throughout the world and these an only a small part of the still undescribed species. There are many checklists and catalogues of Collembola for smaller territories and entire continents. Biogeographical analyses have been made for some genera and smaller territories. The most serious problems for a global biogeographical analysis is the lack of enough records from immense territories of all continents. Local biodiversity of Collembola can be very high, reaching over 100 species in small mountain ranges. Sampling methods do not impede documenting biodiversity on a global scale. Collembola have well differentiated ecomorphological life-forms and Feeding guilds which enable the functional role that Collembola play in ecosystems to be recognised in some degree. Collembola play an important role in plant litter decomposition processes and in forming soil microstructure. They are hosts of many parasitic Protozoa. Nematoda, Trematoda and pathogenic bacteria and in turn are attacked by different predators. They utilise as food Protozoa, Nematoda, Rotatoria, Enchytraeidae, invertebrate carrion, bacteria, fungi, algae, plant litter, live plant tissues, and some plant pathogens. Soil acidification, nitrogen supply, global climate change and intensive farming have greatly impacted collembolan diversity.	1998	7	10.1023/A:1008887817883
Wright, RJ; Thaxton, PM; El-Zik, KM; Paterson, AH	D-subgenome bias of Xcm resistance genes in tetraploid Gossypium (Cotton) suggests that polyploid formation has created novel avenues for evolution	GENETICS	A detailed RFLP map was used to determine the chromosomal locations and subgenomic distributions of cotton (Gossypium) genes/QTLs that confer resistance to the bacterial blight pathogen, Xanthomonas campestris pv. malvacearum (Xcm). Genetic mapping generally corroborated classic predictions regarding the number and dosage effects of genes conferring Xcm resistance. One recessive allele (b(6)) was a noteworthy exception to the genetic dominance of most plant resistance alleles. This recessive allele appeared to uncover additional QTLs from both resistant and ostensibly susceptible genotypes, some of which corresponded in location to resistance (R)-genes effective against other Xcm races. One putatively defeated resistance allele (B-3) reduced severity of Xcm damage by virulent races. Among the six resistance genes derived from tetraploid cottons, five (83%) mapped to D-subgenome chromosomes-if each subgenome were equally likely to evolve new R-gene alleles, this level of bias would occur in only about 1.6% of cases. Possible explanations of this bias include biogeographic factors, differences in evolutionary rates between subgenomes, gene conversion or other intergenomic exchanges that escaped detection by genetic mapping, or other factors. A significant D-subgenome bias of Xcm resistance genes may suggest that polyploid formation has offered novel avenues for phenotypic response to selection.	1998	149	
Foissner, W	An updated compilation of world soil ciliates (Protozoa, Ciliophora), with ecological notes, new records, and descriptions of new species	EUROPEAN JOURNAL OF PROTISTOLOGY	This review compiles and analyses the taxonomic and biogeographical information available on soil ciliates. Key literature (257 references) is tabulated for each species. Furthermore, about 500 new records are reported from hundreds of samples collected world-wide, and four new species are described from Kenyan soils, including the new genus Apobryophyllum; Metopus ovalis Kahl, 1927 is redescribed. 643 ciliate species were originally described or reliably recorded from about 1000 soil samples world-wide, 49 (7.6%) of them were later recognized as junior synonyms, and 78 (13.2%) have been poorly described, leaving a total of 516 well-known species. However, the studied samples contained about 700 new species, most of which (about 500) have not yet been described. Thus, the total number of soil ciliates amounts to at least 1000 species. The overwhelming portion of soil ciliates belongs to three systematic assemblages, viz. the hypotrichs (39%), gymnostomatids (26%) and colpodids (13%) if the undescribed species are taken into account. Most soil ciliates feed on bacteria (39%) or are predatory (34%) or omnivorous (20%). Some are strictly mycophagous and highly characteristic for terrestrial habitats; and a few (mainly metopids) are anaerobic. Only about one fourth of the soil ciliate species has been reliably reported from freshwater habitats and from more than three out of five main biogeographical regions, indicating a high specificity of the soil ciliate biota and a limited distribution of at least some species. This is supported by the observation that some very conspicuous species, such as Krassniggia auxiliaris and Bresslanides discoideus, have so far been found only in Gondwanan, respectively, Laurasian soils.	1998	34	
Sibuet, M; Olu, K	Biogeography, biodiversity and fluid dependence of deep-sea cold-seep communities at active and passive margins	DEEP-SEA RESEARCH PART II-TOPICAL STUDIES IN OCEANOGRAPHY	To date, several cold-seep areas which fuel chemosynthesis-based benthic communities have been explored, mainly by deployment of manned submersibles. They are located in the Atlantic and in the Eastern and Western Pacific oceans and in the Mediterranean Sea, in depths ranging between 400 and 6000 m in different geological contexts in passive and active margins. Our study is based on a review of the existent literature on 24 deep cold seeps. The geographic distribution of seeps, the variations of origin and composition of fluids, and rates of fluid flow are presented as they are important factors which explain the spatial heterogeneity and the biomass of biological communities. Methane-rich fluid of thermogenic and/or biogenic origin is the principal source of energy for high-productive communities; however, production of sulphide by sulphate reduction in the sediment also has a major role. The dominant seep species are large bivalves belonging to the families Vesicomyidae or Mytilidae. Other symbiont-containing species occur belonging to Solemyidae, Thyasiridae, Lucinidae bivalves, Pogonophora worms, Cladorhizidae and Hymedesmiidae sponges. Most of the symbiont-containing cold-seep species are new to science. Different symbiont-containing species rely on sulphide or methane oxidation, or both, via chemoautotrophic endosymbiotic bacteria. A total of 211 species, from which 64 are symbiont-containing species, have been inventoried. Patterns in biodiversity and biogeography are proposed. A large majority of the species are endemic to a seep area and the symbiont-containing species are mainly endemic to the cold-seep ecosystem. A comparison of species found in other deep chemosynthesis-based ecosystems, hydrothermal vents, whale carcass and shipwreck reduced habitats, reveals from the existing data, that only 13 species, of which five are symbiont-containing species occur, at both seeps and hydrothermal vents. The species richness of cold-seep communities decreases with depth. High diversity compared to that on hydrothermal vent sites is found at several seeps. This map be explained by the duration of fluid flow, the sediment substrate which may favour long-term conditions with accumulation of sulphide and the evolution of cold seeps. (C) 1998 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.	1998	45	10.1016/S0967-0645(97)00074-X
Worheide, G	The reef cave dwelling ultraconservative coralline demosponge Astrosclera willeyana Lister 1900 from the Indo-Pacific - Micromorphology, ultrastructure, biocalcification, isotope record, taxonomy, biogeography, phylogeny	FACIES	Astrosclera willeyana LISTER 1900 is a pyriform-half spherical, predominantly bright orange colored, coralline demosponge with a mean size of about 20 mm in height and maximum head diameter. The habitat of Astrosclera is generally restricted to cryptic and light reduced environments of the Indo-Pacific, found mainly in reef caves, but sometimes also in the dim-light areas of cave entrances and overhangs, where it is green colored at the side towards the light. Caves of Indo-Pacific coral reefs were divided into four major facies zones, named 1 to 4 with decreasing light intensities. Astrosclera occurs in reef caves on a carbonate basement in Zone 2, 3, and 4, reaching maximum abundance in Zone 3 and the proximal part of Zone 4, but rare in the distal, very dark areas of Zone 4. Other abundant coralline sponges in reef caves are Spirastrella (Acanthochaetetes) wellsi and Vaceletia crypta. Astrosclera is the most common coralline sponge throughout the studied sites of the Indo-Pacific.	1998	38	10.1007/BF02537358
Brussaard, L; Behan-Pelletier, VM; Bignell, DE; Brown, VK; Didden, W; Folgarait, P; Fragoso, C; Freckman, DW; Gupta, VVSR; Hattori, T; Hawksworth, DL; Klopatek, C; Lavelle, P; Malloch, DW; Rusek, J; Soderstrom, B; Tiedje, JM; Virginia, RA	Biodiversity and ecosystem functioning in soil	AMBIO	We review the current knowledge on biodiversity in soils, its role in ecosystem processes, its importance for human purposes, and its resilience against stress and disturbance. The number of existing species is vastly higher than the number described, even in the macroscopically visible taxa, and biogeographical syntheses are largely lacking. A major effort in taxonomy and the training of a new generation of systematists is imperative. This effort has to be focussed on the groups of soil organisms that, to the best of our knowledge, play key roles in ecosystem functioning. To identify such groups, spheres of influence (SOI) of soil biota - such as the root biota, the shredders of organic matter and the soil bioturbators - are recognized that presumably control ecosystem processes, for example, through interactions with plants. Within those SOI, functional groups of soil organisms are recognized. Research questions of the highest urgency are the assignment of species to functional groups and determining the redundancy of species within functional groups. These priorities follow from the need to address the extent of any loss of functioning in soils, associated with intensive agriculture, forest disturbance, pollution of the environment, and global environmental change. The soil biota considered at present to be most at risk are species-poor functional groups among macrofaunal shredders of organic matter, bioturbators of soil, specialized bacteria like nitrifiers and nitrogen fixers, and fungiforming mycorrhizas. An experimental approach in addressing these research priorities is needed, using longterm and large-scale field experiments and modern methods of geostatistics and geographic information systems.	1997	26	
Evdokimova, GA	Microflora in podzolic soils on sandstone eluvium on the Terskii coast of the Kola Peninsula	EURASIAN SOIL SCIENCE	A biogeographical assessment was performed on the population, biomass, and biodiversity of microorganisms, and the structure of their communities in podzolic soils formed on the eluvium of Terskii sandstones on the southern coast of the Kola Peninsula. Microflora was characterized in the soils of topographical sequence from the sea to the peninsula, including five different biogeocenoses. These cenoses were formed on soils of different ages: from primitive to podzolic Al-Fe-humus with a differentiated profile. The connection was determined between the structure and composition of microbial communities with organic matter and physicochemical soil properties.	1997	30	
Ronquist, F	Phylogenetic approaches in coevolution and biogeography	ZOOLOGICA SCRIPTA	I review phylogenetic approaches to problems in coevolution and biogeography, illustrating with case studies. In coevolution, genealogical trees are essential in differentiating between ancient and recent associations, in identifying cospeciation events, and in studying host-switching patterns. Cospeciating associations are of particular interest because they allow powerful tests of molecular clocks and accurate comparison of evolutionary rates across groups of organisms. In biogeography, phylogenies can help reconstruct the distribution history of individual groups and identify past geological events that have affected the evolution of entire communities. Parsimony analysis in coevolution and biogeography should be based on identification of different types of events, each of which is associated with a specific cost. Similar event-based methods are applicable to coevolutionary and biogeographic inference, as well as in the mapping of gene trees onto organism trees. The discussed examples span a variety of organisms and spatiotemporal scales: primate pin worms, HIV, pocket gophers and their lice, aphids and their bacterial symbionts, gall wasps and their host plants, the root of the tree of life, the historical biogeography of the Holarctic, and the geographical origin of our own species. (C) 1998 The Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters.	1997	26	10.1111/j.1463-6409.1997.tb00421.x
Gosink, JJ; Herwig, RP; Staley, JT	Octadecabacter arcticus gen nov, sp nov, and O-antarcticus, sp nov, nonpigmented, psychrophilic gas vacuolate bacteria from polar sea ice and water	SYSTEMATIC AND APPLIED MICROBIOLOGY	Heterotrophic. psychrophilic, gas vasuolate bacteria were recovered from arctic and antarctic sea ice and water. Cellular fatty acid analysis was used to group these isolates. One group herein descrihed as the new genus Octadecabacter, had octadecenoic acid (18:1) in excess of 70% of their total fatty acid content. Phylogenetic analysis of the 16S rRNA of several strains from this group revealed that they were members of the alpha Proteobacteria and were most closely related to the genus Roseobacter. Further phenotypic and genotypic tests showed that these strains can be distinguished from Roseobacter on thr basis of low levels of DNA/DNA hybridization. lack of bacteriochlorophyll a, and because they are psychrophiles. Octadecabacter gen. nov., contains both a north polar species, O, arcticus sp, nov, str, 238, and a south polar species. O. antarcticus sp. nov. str. 307. This genus may be useful for examining the extent of procaryotic biogeographic dispersal.	1997	20	
Nalepa, CA; Byers, GW; Bandi, C; Sironi, M	Description of Cryptocercus clevelandi (Dictyoptera: Cryptocercidae) from the northwestern United States, molecular analysis of bacterial symbionts in its fat body, and notes on biology, distribution, and biogeography	ANNALS OF THE ENTOMOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF AMERICA	Previously published studies on distribution, out fauna, glandular secretions, karyotypes. 12S and 16S mitochondrial ribosomal DNA (rDNA) sequence divergence, and reproductive isolation suggest that at least 2 species have been included in the taxon Cryptocercus punctulatus Scudder. Here we present morphological and biological studies of the insects, including 16S rDNA sequence divergence of their bacterial endosymbionts in the fat body. We conclude that the name C. punctulatus should be restricted to populations from the Appalachian region of the eastern United States. Those in southern Washington, Oregon, and northern California in the northwestern United States are a distinct species here assigned to Cryptocercus clevelandi by G. W. Byers. The genus Cryptocercus now consists of 4 species, whose distribution suggests an early Tertiary origin.	1997	90	
Hara, S; Sheu, JC; Chen, YLL; Takahashi, E	Choanoflagellates (Sarcomastigophora, Protozoa) from the coastal waters of Taiwan and Japan .2. Species composition and biogeography	ZOOLOGICAL STUDIES	Light and electron microscopical studies of sea microbes from the coastal waters of Taiwan have revealed an abundant choanoflagellate fauna from these Western Pacific subtropical waters. A total of 25 loricate (Acanthoecidae), 3 thecate (Salpingoecidae), and 1 naked (Codonosigidae) choanoflagellates were recorded for the 1st time from coastal waters of Taiwan. The Taiwanese loricate choanoflagellate fauna is more similar to that of Japan (20 species in common) than to that of the tropical Indian Ocean (11 species in common).	1997	36	
Pohlman, JW; Iliffe, TM; Cifuentes, LA	A stable isotope study of organic cycling and the ecology of an anchialine cave ecosystem	MARINE ECOLOGY PROGRESS SERIES	Stable carbon and nitrogen isotope data, complemented with other geochemical parameters, were used to identify the sources of organic matter that support the food web of an anchialine cave ecosystem in the northeastern Yucatan Peninsula, Mexico. Anchialine caves, common along tropical karstic and volcanic coastlines, are completely or partially inundated by highly stratified layers of fresh and marine waters. Stable isotope data from the cave fauna, the particulate organic matter (POM) from the cenote pool and from the cave, the forest soil and the cave sediments indicated that at least 3 sources of nutritive organics could support the anchialine food web. These sources were: (1) soil from the overlying forest; (2) freshwater algae from adjoining open water pools; and (3) chemoautotrophic nitrifying bacteria living in the cave. Production of nitrate and a decrease in O-2 along the halocline provided geochemical evidence of nitrification. Stable nitrogen isotope data defined 2 to 2.5 trophic levels in the food web. Furthermore, it was found that troglobitic (cave-limited) species residing in the water column are capable of preferentially feeding on specific organic reservoirs. This study presents the first extensive description of the ecological and biogeochemical relationships of the anchialine cave ecosystem.	1997	155	10.3354/meps155017
Smith, HG	Diversity of Antarctic terrestrial protozoa	BIODIVERSITY AND CONSERVATION	Heterotrophic protozoa have a global distribution in terrestrial habitats. The functional groups significantly represented are zooflagellates, ciliates, gymnamoebae and testate amoebae. Their range extends into the Antarctic zone, but the species richness of the communities is rarely of the same order of magnitude as those in temperate latitudes. Species diversity is usually very low owing to dominance of the communities by single, or a few, species which are best adapted to the Antarctic terrestrial environment. This is characterized by seasonal, diurnal or unpredictable fluctuations in moisture, temperature and bacterial food supply of high amplitude. The fauna shows pauperization with latitude and climatic severity. Nearly all records of species distribution are consistent with the model that community composition is determined by local conditions. An important exception is the distribution of the testate amoeba genus Nebela whose species distribution is influenced by biogeographical factors. Successional changes in community composition in fellfield habitats are characterized by the sequence: pioneer microflagellate colonizers, larger flagellates and small ciliates, and finally testate amoebae. The succession is most closely correlated with the accumulation of organic matter. A model of the strategies of dominant microflagellate species can be constructed by ordinating them on a two-dimensional habitat template of A-r-K selection continuum. The globally ubiquitous microflagellate Heteromita globosa emerges as the most strongly A-selected and K-selected. The occurrence of terrestrial protozoa near their latitudinal limits of distribution can serve as sensitive indicators of the biological effects of climatic change. Having short generation times and effective means of cyst dispersal, changes in the gross distribution can provide rapid warning of critical changes in thermal regimes.	1996	5	10.1007/BF00051984
Vincent, WF; James, MR	Biodiversity in extreme aquatic environments: Lakes, ponds and streams of the Ross Sea Sector, Antarctica	BIODIVERSITY AND CONSERVATION	The Ross Sea Sector (RSS) of Antarctica lies between the lines of longitude 150 degrees E and 150 degrees W and contains diverse landscapes with a variety of lakes, ponds and streams. Neither insects nor crustacean species have been recorded in these ecosystems but most contain planktonic and/or benthic communities that are composed exclusively of microscopic organisms. Microbial biodiversity is low with a small number of species (e.g. filamentous cyanobacteria of the family Oscillatoriaceae) occurring under a broad range of environmental conditions throughout the region. There is no evidence to date of microbial endemism in the RSS; however, there is a need to apply molecular and cellular techniques to compare biodiversity and genetic characteristics with assemblages elsewhere in Antarctica and with comparable communities in the north polar zone. A series of hypotheses are advanced to help guide further work. These derive from the conclusion that environmental extremes plus biogeographical isolation control the biodiversity of RSS communities, and that biological interactions (competition, grazing, predation, parasitism) are weak and play a minor role by comparison with temperate latitude ecosystems.	1996	5	10.1007/BF00051987
Karsten, U; GarciaPichel, F	Carotenoids and mycosporine-like amino acid compounds in members of the genus Microcoleus (Cyanobacteria): A chemosystematic study	SYSTEMATIC AND APPLIED MICROBIOLOGY	We determined the patterns of occurrence of carotenoids and mycosporine-like amino acid compounds among 21 cyanobacterial isolates, variously ascribed to the genus Microcoleus, and used them as chemotaxonomical markers. All strains fitting the morphological and ecological description of M. chthonoplastes had a remarkably similar pattern of carotenoids and mycosporine-like amino acids (MAAs), regardless of their geographical origin. This supports the notion that these isolates represent a phylogenetically coherent group. However, small variations in the sugar moiety of their myxoxanthophylls and the occurrence of novel mycosporine-like amino acid compounds indicate some degree of either biogeographical or ecotypic diversification. The M. chthonoplastes-group of strains could easily be differentiated on the basis of the presence of the carotenoids echinenone, isozeaxanthin, zeaxanthin and various MAAs from all other isolates fitting the morphological and ecological descriptions of M. sociatus, M. paludosus, and M. lacustris, as well as other strains of uncertain affiliation, which have been assigned to Microcoleus in the literature. Our study demonstrates the applicability of the chemotaxonomy with carotenoids and mycosporines in solving problematic questions in low-rank cyanobacterial systematics.	1996	19	
Kitazato, H; Shirayama, Y	RAPID CREATION OF A REDUCED ENVIRONMENT AND AN EARLY STAGE OF A CHEMOSYNTHETIC COMMUNITY ON CATTLE BONES AT THE DEEP-SEA BOTTOM IN SAGAMI BAY, CENTRAL JAPAN An experimental approach to test the stepping-stone hypothesis for chemosynthetic community dispersion	VIE ET MILIEU-LIFE AND ENVIRONMENT	The ability to create a locally reduced environment that harbors a deep-sea chemosynthetic community in the deep sea was tested using thigh bones of cattle as an analogue of a dead fall of a dead fall of a large marine vertebrate. The experiment was carried out in December 1993 by placing the bones on the bathyal seafloor in Sagami bay, japan using the manned submersible Shinkai 2000. by one year later, a reduced environment had developed in the sediment around the bone. on the bone, a white microbial mat grew thickly and a galatheid crab and lithiod crab gathered. Our results confirmed that bones of a large animal can result in a locally reduced environment and become stepping stones that may aid long-distance dispersion of the larvae of animals of chemosynthetic communities.	1996	46	
Tunnicliffe, V; Fowler, CMR	Influence of sea-floor spreading on the global hydrothermal vent fauna	NATURE	ONE remarkable discovery of recent decades is the presence of hundreds of unusual species, including fourteen new families, at hydrothermal vents, These animals, unknown from other habitats, live in extreme chemical and thermal conditions around vents on spreading centres of the mid-ocean ridges and back-are basins. Chemosynthesis provides an in situ energy source for the thriving vent fauna. This habitat has existed through the Phanerozoic(1,2) and probably since the Archaean, thus providing sites for long-term adaptation. We now test the hypothesis that animal distribution among hydrothermal vents is related to tectonic plate history(3,4). The predominant migration pathway is most likely to occur along mid-ocean ridges rather than by shortest oceanic routes, Similarity analyses suggest that the distribution patterns of todays vent fauna display the strong imprint of the timing and geometry of ancient plate boundaries. Study of past ridge geometry provides a method to predict relationships among vent communities yet to be discovered.	1996	379	10.1038/379531a0
Foissner, W	Faunistics, taxonomy and ecology of moss and soil ciliates (Protozoa, Ciliophora) from Antarctica, with description of new species, including Pleuroplitoides smithi gen n, sp n	ACTA PROTOZOOLOGICA	Fifty nine moss and soil samples from the maritime and continental Antarctic were investigated for their ciliate fauna using the non-flooded Petri dish method. Collections were made from a variety of biotopes covering most principal soil and vegetation types of the region following a dine from 60 degrees-78 degrees S, i.e. of increasing climatic severity. Sixty four species were found: 51 in region A (Signy Island and Livingstone Island), 16 in region B (Antarctic Peninsula), and 14 in region C (continental Antarctic, viz. Ross Island and South Victoria Land). Twenty nine out of the 64 species were first records for the region, and 5 of them were new species. Mean species number per sample was markedly higher in region A (9.6) than in region B (1.0) and region C (0.9), reflecting a dramatic faunal pauperization with increasing climatic severity and, respectively, decreasing soil fertility. This is strengthened by the observation that all samples from region A contained ciliates, whereas they were lacking in half of the collections from regions B and C. This highly patchy distribution, as yet not found elsewhere, is very likely caused by the severe environment allowing few pioneers to establish permanent populations. As compared with temperate and tropical regions, the Antarctic ciliate species richness is decreased by at least one order of magnitude. The fauna is dominated by r - selected, bacteria and fungi feeding colpodids. The most frequent species were Colpoda ecaudata, C. steini, C, inflata, Pseudocyrtolophosis alpestris, Pseudoplatyophrya nana, and Cyclidium muscicola, clearly proving Smiths (1973 a) bi-polar biogeography of Colpoda to be a methodological artifact. Nine ciliate species are described or redescribed using standard methods: Pleuroplitoides smithi sp, n., Protospathidium serpens, Cyclidium glaucoma, Notohymena antarctica sp. n., Sterkiella thompsoni sp. n., Urosomoida granulifera sp. n., U. antarctica sp, n., Oxytricha lanceolata, and Paruroleptus notabilis. The genera Pleuroplites Foissner, 1988 and Pleuroplitoides gen. n. (dorsal brush isomorphic and composed of 2 rows with paired, shortened cilia) are united in the family Pleuroplitidae fam. n. (Acropisthiina with extracytostomal extrusome bundle on ventral side; dorsal brush composed of few isomorphic or many heteromorphic kineties).	1996	35	
Lane, MA	Roles of natural history collections	ANNALS OF THE MISSOURI BOTANICAL GARDEN	Natural history collections have always contained a wealth of data: genetic and phylogenetic information stored as an inherent part of the samples of organisms themselves, and biogeographic, ecological, and biographical information stored in the labels that are affixed to them. Together, a preserved organism and its label are a scientific specimen that has great intrinsic value. Separately, the label is a piece of paper with meaningless inscriptions upon it, and the plant, spider, microbe, mushroom, or bird, though carefully preserved, is just so much dead organic matter. Natural history collections are the repository of the vouchers for the documentation of what we know about the diversity of living things-what species exist and where, what their habitat requirements are, what ecological associations they have with other species, what useful biochemical products they might generate, and who collected them and has studied them. Before the advent of computers, natural history collections were physical databases from which geographic or ecological analyses and reports could be extracted by human visitation and transcription, usually a laborious and time-consuming task. However, such analyses are invaluable for land-use planning, pharmacognosy, conservation biology, range management, forestry, agriculture, and a host of other applications including scientific studies of the ecology and systematics of the species being examined. Computerization of label data makes such reports on distribution and ecology of species more readily available to potential users; they add value to the data. Interconnecting the databases brings robustness to the information that natural history collections can provide to policy-making bodies; appreciation of robust data will lead in turn to appreciation of the collections from which those data were taken. Interconnectivity requires that collections personnel abandon competition in favor of achieving a common goal: the discovery and description of the worlds biota.	1996	83	10.2307/2399994
SMITH, JJ; OFFORD, LC; HOLDERNESS, M; SADDLER, GS	GENETIC DIVERSITY OF BURKHOLDERIA-SOLANACEARUM (SYNONYM PSEUDOMONAS-SOLANACEARUM) RACE-3 IN KENYA	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Genetic diversity among isolates of the bacterial plant pathogen Burkholderia solanacearum (synonym Pseudomonas solanacearum) race 3 biovar II of Kenya was determined by PCR with repetitive sequences (ERIC and BOX repetitive primer sets) and pulsed-field gel electrophoresis of genomic DNA digested by rare-cutting restriction endonucleases (RC-PFGE). The study comprised 46 isolates collected during 1992 from the major potato-growing regions of Kenya (45 were identified as race 3 biovar II, and 1 belonged to race 3 biovar N2) and 39 reference isolates from 19 other countries. RC-PFGE identified 10 distinct profile types among the Kenyan race 3 biovar II isolates (29 of the isolates exhibited identical profiles) and a further 27 distinct profile types among the reference isolates. ERIC and BOX primer sets were unable to differentiate race 3 biovar II isolates within the Kenyan population but differentiated a further two distinct profile types among the reference isolates. The race 3 biovar N2 isolate had a highly distinct RC-PFGE and repetitive sequence PCR profile. Statistical analysis of the data identified biogeographic trends consistent with conclusions drawn from previous studies on the origin and worldwide dissemination of race 3 biovar II isolates; however, genomic fingerprinting by RC-PFGE revealed a level of genetic diversity previously unrealized.	1995	61	
Rappe, MS; Kemp, PF; Giovannoni, SJ	Chromophyte plastid 16s ribosomal RNA genes found in a clone library from Atlantic Ocean seawater	JOURNAL OF PHYCOLOGY	In recent gears, the cloning of ribosomal RNA genes from natural plankton communities has provided insight into the biodiversity of marine bacterioplankton. Small eukaIyotic phytoplankton, like bacterioplankton, can be difficult to cultivate or identify routinely by morphological characteristics. We used bacteria-specific 16S rRNA primers to amplify genes from picoplankton samples collected on 0.2-mu m filters by filtration from a depth of 10 m in the pelagic region over the continental shelf off Cape Hatteras, North Carolina. Nucleic acid sequencing and probe hybridization revealed that chromophyte plastid genes comprised 25% of the genes in a library of 170 clones. The plastid genes belonged to two groups within the Chromophyta: the Prymnesiophyceae and the Bacillariophyceae. Comparisons revealed substantial diversity among the bacillariophyte gene sequences, but the species from which the genes originated could not be identified because few sequences from cultured bacillariophytes are available. The prymnesiophyte genes could not be identified either, although they were most similar (similarity = 0.94) to plastid genes from the coccolithophorid Emiliania huxleyi (Lohmann) Hay and Mohler strain PML92D. These results provide evidence of abundant chromophyte plastid 16S rRNA genes in the water over the continental shelf off Cape Hatteras. The results also suggest that plastid 16S rRNA genes may provide suitable genetic markers for studying phytoplankton biodiversity and biogeography.	1995	31	10.1111/j.0022-3646.1995.00979.x
LINDSTROM, S	EARLY-LATE PERMIAN PALYNOSTRATIGRAPHY AND PALAEO-BIOGEOGRAPHY OF VESTFJELLA, DRONNING-MAUD-LAND, ANTARCTICA	REVIEW OF PALAEOBOTANY AND PALYNOLOGY	The preliminary results of a palynological investigation of 62 samples from the southern section of a sedimentary sequence exposed at Fossilryggen in the Vestfjella mountain range in Dronning Maud Land, Antarctica are reported. The sequence, which is cut by dolerite dykes, is considered to have been deposited in a near-shore marine environment. Palynomorphs recovered show high degrees of thermal alteration and various states of preservation; 55 palynomorph taxa have been identified, including the stratigraphically important Didecitriletes ericianus, Microbaculispora villosa, M. trisina, Horriditriletes filiformis, Praecolpatites sinuosus, Weylandites lucifer, Protohaploxypinus rugatus, Striatopodocarpidites cancellatus and S. fusus. Also present are acritarchs, such as Peltacystia venosa, P. monile and Circulisporites sp., and prasinophycean algae, such as Cymatiosphaera gondwanensis. Palaeobiogeographically the palynoflora is typical for southern Gondwanaland and it is correlated primarily with assemblages of similar composition in Antarctica, South Africa and Australia. Comparisons are also made with assemblages from the northern margins of Gondwanaland and Eurameria, with which palynostratigraphical correlations are more difficult. No typical Euramerian taxa have been found in the palynoflora from Fossilryggen, which is assessed as no older than Australian Lower Stage 5b and 5c assemblages and is considered to be of early Late Permian (Ufimian) age.	1995	86	10.1016/0034-6667(94)00104-R
KELLOGG, CA; ROSE, JB; JIANG, SC; THURMOND, JM; PAUL, JH	GENETIC DIVERSITY OF RELATED VIBRIOPHAGES ISOLATED FROM MARINE ENVIRONMENTS AROUND FLORIDA AND HAWAII, USA	MARINE ECOLOGY PROGRESS SERIES	Although viruses from the marine environment have been enumerated, isolated, and characterized, there is little information on the abundance or global distribution of specific phage types. To this end, we studied the abundance and distribution of phages which infect a marine bacterium isolated from Tampa Bay (Florida, USA), tentatively identified (Microbial ID, Inc., Newark, Delaware, USA) as Vibrio parahaemolyticus. Using this host, we have isolated over 60 phages from the Gulf of Mexico, Tampa Bay, Florida Keys, and Oahu, Hawaii (USA). These isolates are all Myoviridae, with head sizes ranging from 50 +/- 0.0 to 65 +/- 4.2 nm and tail lengths of 60 +/- 3.6 to 100 +/- 5.0 nm. The type phage (Phi 16 from Tampa Bay) has a double-stranded DNA genome of 51 to 58 kb. A 1.5 kb EcoRI fragment of this genome has been cloned and used as a gene probe. All of the DNA from the phage isolates hybridized to this probe under stringent conditions, but not to DNA from other marine vibriophages and bacteriophages, suggesting genetic relatedness. Agarose gel electrophoresis of EcoRI digests of the DNAs, followed by Southern transfer and probing with the 1.5 kb gene probe, yielded 6 groups based upon banding patterns. These groups were not segregated geographically within the Florida isolates; however, all of the Hawaiian phages had a common restriction pattern. These data indicate that populations of genetically related phages are widely distributed over large geographic distances in the oceans.	1995	120	10.3354/meps120089
MAROIS, JJ; COLEMAN, PM	ECOLOGICAL SUCCESSION AND BIOLOGICAL-CONTROL IN THE PHYLLOSPHERE	CANADIAN JOURNAL OF BOTANY-REVUE CANADIENNE DE BOTANIQUE	Understanding biological control of plant diseases is dependent on an understanding of succession in microbial communities. The colonization of aboveground plant parts by saprophytic microbes is not well understood, but it appears to follow the same model as that in soil communities. When a nutrient source is added, such as plant debris, there is a succession of organisms organized along a spectrum of complexity of carbohydrate utilization. A similar phenomenon may occur during the colonization of plant parts newly exposed by natural development or by wounds, upon which many pathogens depend to serve as sites of infection. These nutrient utilization strategies have been interpreted as indicative of r (rapidly utilizing simple sugars) and K (slowly utilizing lignin) life strategies. Lf the concepts of r and K species are applicable to microbes, it could indicate what type of interaction would be most likely to be successful for biological control. For example, pathogens that are r species may be better controlled by competition, and K pathogenic species better controlled by parasitism. However, for any interaction to take place, the control agents environmental requirements, both biotic and abiotic, must overlap with that of the pathogen. The concepts of ecological succession and r and K species, if appropriate for microorganisms, may prove very valuable when developing biological control strategies.	1995	73	
SCHOLZ, J; HILLMER, G	REEF-BRYOZOANS AND BRYOZOAN-MICROREEFS - CONTROL FACTOR EVIDENCE FROM THE PHILIPPINES AND OTHER REGIONS	FACIES	In this paper, a preliminary concept on the interplay of local, regional and global control factors of bryozoan diversity and distribution pattern is introduced. Recent bryozoans from the Philippines, New Zealand and the Gulf of Aqaba are compared to the selected fossil specimens from the Oxfordian and Santonian. Reef bryozoan skeletons are studied in order to separate local control within the substrate-water interface from regional control. The latter originate mainly from the transport function of the water column (e.g. sediment load, wave energy, vagile predators). This is true especially for erect (tree-like) and massive (multilaminar) bryozoans which are subjected to the dynamics of the water body in the littoral area. This regional control, affects simultaneously several structural and substrate zones of a reef. Early life history of vertically growing reef bryozoans reflect local control, while older zoarial structures reflect the signals of regional influence. Three types of multiserial nodular bryozoans are cited: self-overgrowing sheets (S-Nodule, derived from S-Sheet), circumlaterally budding colonies (C-Nodules), and fungiform bryozoans. Bryozoan growth form selection allows the separation of two types of regional controls, long range control which favours the selection of specialized sheets, and slow rate control documented in the growth form modification of sheets changing into nodules. In the domain of local control epibiontic microorganisms, microbial mars and biofilms on hard substrata represent probably the most important elements, aside from the limited substrate space. Symbiotic and/or competitive bryozoan-microorganism interrelationships result in the distinct adaptations of bryozoan growth. It is apparent that bryozoan modifications of substrate micro-topography influence the character of epibiontic microbial, settlement. The peak occurrence of microbial settlement on prominent external bryozoan skeleton. parts is discussed as an effect of feeding currents. In contrast, smooth and unelevated exoskeletons are less favourable for micro-epibiontic colonization. Due to the high level of order in the spatial zonation patterns of epibionts on calcifying bryozoans, the term bryozoan-microreef is introduced. Bryozoan-microreefs are locally controlled reefs. They are e.g. characterized by higher competitive abilities than bryozoans without reef-dwellers. Local control has a fast rate of change and is reflected in morphologies of individual zooids and/or single zooid generations. Regional control has a slower rate but a higher range. It is important for growth modifications of the whole zoaria. The very slow rate of global control cannot be recorded within the life span of bryozoan zoaria unless it is expressed through regional control (such as monsoons). Nevertheless, global control is paleoecological important because it is traceable in bryozoan (paleo-)biogeography. For practical purpose, we suggest to define those control factors of bryozoans as global which affect simultaneously at least one tropical and one non-tropical bryozoan community.	1995	32	10.1007/BF02536866
SCHOLIN, CA; ANDERSON, DM	IDENTIFICATION OF GROUP-SPECIFIC AND STRAIN-SPECIFIC GENETIC-MARKERS FOR GLOBALLY DISTRIBUTED ALEXANDRIUM (DINOPHYCEAE) .1. RFLP ANALYSIS OF SSU RIBOSOMAL-RNA GENES	JOURNAL OF PHYCOLOGY	Two distinct small-subunit ribosomal RNA genes (SSU rDNAs), termed the A gene and B gene, were recently Sound in the toxic dinoflagellate Alexandrium fundyense Balech. A restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) assay was developed to rapidly detect the A and B genetic markers. SSU rDNA from 58 cultures with species designations of A. tamarense (Lebour) Balech, A. catenella (Whedon et Kofoid) Balech, A. fundyense, A. affine (Fukuyo et Inoue) Balech, A, minutum Halim, A. lusitanicum Balech, and A. andersoni Balech were screened. These cultures represent toxic and nontoxic isolates from North America, western Europe, Thailand, Japan, Australia, and the ballast water of several cargo ships. The RFLP assay revealed five distinct groups. Three subdivided the A. tamarense/catenella/fundyense species complex into clusters defined by geographic origin, not by morphospecies designations. The fourth group consisted of A. affine, whereas the fifth group was represented by A. minutum, A. lusitanicum, and A. andersoni. The B gene was only found in A. tamarense, A. catenella, and A. fundyense, but not in all isolates. However, all North American isolates of this closely related group harbored this gene, and it also was found in some A. tamarense from scattered locations in Japan and in the ballast water of one ship that operated exclusively between Japan and Australia, Isolates without the B gene appeared to have only a single class of SSU rDNA. The B sequence was not essential for toxin production, but thus Sar those organisms harboring it were toxic. The A. tamarense/catenella/fundyense complex is composed of genetically distinct populations, within which may exist two or all three of the mophotypically defined species. The B gene is a promising taxonomic and biogeographic marker and may be useful for tracking the regional and/or global dispersal of particular populations.	1994	30	10.1111/j.0022-3646.1994.00744.x
COLWELL, RK; CODDINGTON, JA	ESTIMATING TERRESTRIAL BIODIVERSITY THROUGH EXTRAPOLATION	PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF LONDON SERIES B-BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES	Both the magnitude and the urgency of the task of assessing global biodiversity require that we make the most of what we know through the use of estimation and extrapolation. Likewise, future biodiversity inventories need to be designed around the use of effective sampling and estimation procedures, especially for hyperdiverse groups of terrestrial organisms, such as arthropods, nematodes, fungi, and microorganisms. The challenge of estimating patterns of species richness from samples can be separated into (i) the problem of estimating local species richness, and (ii) the problem of estimating the distinctness, or complementarity, of species assemblages. These concepts apply on a wide range of spatial, temporal, and functional scales. Local richness can be estimated by extrapolating species accumulation curves, fitting parametric distributions of relative abundance, or using non-parametric techniques based on the distribution of individuals among species or of species among samples. We present several of these methods and examine their effectiveness for an example data set. We present a simple measure of complementarity, with some biogeographic examples, and outline the difficult problem of estimating complementarity from samples. Finally, we discuss the importance of using reference sites (or sub-sites) to assess the true richness and composition of species assemblages, to measure ecologically significant ratios between unrelated taxa, to measure taxon/sub-taxon (hierarchical) ratios, and to calibrate standardized sampling methods. This information can then be applied to the rapid, approximate assessment of species richness and faunal or floral composition at comparative sites.	1994	345	10.1098/rstb.1994.0091
WILKINSON, DM	A REVIEW OF THE BIOGEOGRAPHY OF THE PROTOZOAN GENUS NEBELA IN THE SOUTHERN TEMPERATE AND ANTARCTIC ZONES	AREA	Most examples used in biogeography textbooks are derived from studies of macroscopic organisms. As an example of microbial biogeography studies on the distribution of the protozoan genus Nebela in the southern temperature and Antarctic zones are presented. The results suggest a major role for climate (characterised by mean January temperature) in controlling species richness. The high number of endemic taxa along with the deviation of several sites from the general relationship between species richness and climate suggests that geographical barriers play an important role in Nebela biogeography. It is suggested that the genus has responded to past climate changes (eg glacial/interglacial cycles) by migration. Possible effects of anthropogenic climate change are considered. It is suggested that their small size (hence potentially rapid wind-borne migration) and short generation time make protozoa a potentially sensitive measure of biological response to climate change.	1994	26	
IVANY, LC; NEWTON, CR; MULLINS, HT	BENTHIC INVERTEBRATES OF A MODERN CARBONATE RAMP - A PRELIMINARY SURVEY	JOURNAL OF PALEONTOLOGY	A preliminary survey of benthic invertebrates off central west Florida provides documentation of modem epifaunal communities on a low-gradient carbonate slope. Three large-scale biofacies occur in soft-sediment carbonate environments between 200 and 2,000 m: an Echinoderm biofacies (200-550 m) dominated by a diverse assemblage of echinoderms, gastropods, and decapod crustaceans; a Penaeid shrimp-conical mound biofacies (550-1,200 m) characterized by large bioturbation structures; and a Microbial mat biofacies (1,200-2,000 m) with only rare epifaunal invertebrates. A fourth, hard-substrate biofacies reflects the presence of localized Miocene and Pleistocene hardgrounds in water depths of 200-600 m. This illustrates that hard-substrate biofacies may be laterally correlative with soft-sediment biofacies in a slope setting, thus producing a mosaic of contrasting faunal associations. All four biofacies have low population densities, presumably as a consequence of relatively low surface productivity. All four biofacies also show biogeographic affinity with other faunas at intermediate depths in the Caribbean region. Depth-related faunal transitions on the west Florida slope correlate with substrate and current velocity. Decreasing species diversity and abundance and a biofacies transition from suspension-feeding to deposit-feeding assemblages correlate with increasing depth, a decrease in mean grain size, and an increase in organic content of the sediment. This biofacies model may provide a modern analogue for faunas of ancient low-gradient slopes such as those of Cretaceous shelf-sea chalks of northwestern Europe.	1994	68	
SMITH, CR	TEMPO AND MODE IN DEEP-SEA BENTHIC ECOLOGY - PUNCTUATED EQUILIBRIUM REVISITED	PALAIOS	The deep-sea floor is traditionally perceived as a habitat where low food flux and sluggish bottom currents force life to proceed at slow, steady rates. In this view, benthic community structure is controlled by equilibrium processes, such as extreme levels of habitat partitioning, made possible by remarkable ecosystem stability. A number of recent discoveries indicate, however, that endogenous disturbances may be relatively frequent, and that pulses of food reach the seafloor from the upper ocean. The biological processes driven by these events can be highly variable in space and time, exhibiting disequilibrium dynamics. I briefly review four examples of pulsed events that punctuate the apparent equilibrium of the deep-sea floor: biogenic mound building, benthic storms, pulses of phytodetritus, and whale falls. Such punctuational events may substantially influence processes of modern and past ecological significance, including (1) maintenance of macrofaunal diversity and population structure, (2) deposit-feeder-microbe interactions and associated trace production, and (3) dispersal and biogeography of chemosynthetic communities at the deep-sea floor.	1994	9	10.2307/3515074
ARMBRUSTER, WS	EARLY EVOLUTION OF DALECHAMPIA (EUPHORBIACEAE) - INSIGHTS FROM PHYLOGENY, BIOGEOGRAPHY, AND COMPARATIVE ECOLOGY	ANNALS OF THE MISSOURI BOTANICAL GARDEN	Dalechampia contains over 120 species arid occurs throughout the lowland tropics of Asia, Africa, and the New World. Most species in both the Old and the New World secrete terpenoid resin from large glandlike aggregations of bractlets in the pseudanthial inflorescences (blossorns) and are pollinated by bees that collect resin for use in nest construction. Using comparative chemical, morphological, and ecological data and phylogenetic analyses, I attempt to ascertain the early evolutionary and biogeographic events that led to the present distribution of species, character states, and pollinatioii systems throughout the tropics. Available evidence suggests the genus originated in western Gondwana or South America in the iiiid Cretaceous or early Tertiary, respectively, and spread throughout the tropics by the rafting of land masses, or by migration across higher latitudes when they bad subtropical climates, or both. There is some evidence for two migrational events between the Old and New Worlds. The original pollination system may have involved pollination by pollen-collecting insects or bv fragrance-collecting male euglossine bees, The origin of pollination by resin-collecting bees appears to have been a consequence of a preadaptation (exaptation): the earliest Dalechampia apparently used triterpene resins to defend flower parts against attack by herbivores and/or microbes, and resiri secondarily assumed the role of pollinator reward. The mutualistic relationship with resin-collecting bees may have originated independently in the Old and New Worlds.	1994	81	10.2307/2992100
DOYLE, JJ	PHYLOGENY OF THE LEGUME FAMILY - AN APPROACH TO UNDERSTANDING THE ORIGINS OF NODULATION	ANNUAL REVIEW OF ECOLOGY AND SYSTEMATICS	Members of Leguminosae (legumes), the third largest family of flowering plants, are cosmopolitan in distribution, diverse in form, and of considerable ecological, agricultural, and scientific importance. Objective phylogeny reconstruction at all taxonomic levels is in the process of reshaping the taxonomy of the family as well as providing new hypotheses concerning the affinities of the family with other angiosperms. Cladistic analyses of morphological and DNA variation for the entire family are in relatively good agreement and echo long-held beliefs, based on more intuitive methods, that many recognized taxa are unnatural. Of the three subfamilies, Mimosoideae and Papilionoideae are most probably monophyletic, while Caesalpinioideae, as suspected, is a paraphyletic grade of basal elements. Phylogenetic hypotheses are being used to address a diversity of questions including biogeography, evolution of pollination systems, origins of economically important species, and genome evolution. Phylogenetic considerations suggest that the ability of legumes to fix atmospheric nitrogen in symbiosis with soil bacteria (nodulation) has arisen several times in the family. Nodules appear to be structurally homologous across the family. The orthology relationships and expression patterns of genes expressed solely or predominantly in the nodule (nodulins) may eventually provide additional criteria for elucidating homologies.	1994	25	
MORAN, NA; BAUMANN, P; VONDOHLEN, C	USE OF DNA-SEQUENCES TO RECONSTRUCT THE HISTORY OF THE ASSOCIATION BETWEEN MEMBERS OF THE STERNORRHYNCHA (HOMOPTERA) AND THEIR BACTERIAL ENDOSYMBIONTS	EUROPEAN JOURNAL OF ENTOMOLOGY	The suborder Sternorrhyncba (Insecta: Homoptera) includes aphids, whiteflies, psyllids and scale insects; these are all large diverse groups of herbivorous insects that feed on plant sap and that include many of the most damaging agricultural pests. All of these insects are dependent on obligately intracellular procaryotic symbionts for their survival. In this collaborative project between Nancy Moran and Carol von Dohlen, both insect biologists, and Paul Baumann, a bacteriologist, molecular phylogenetic methods have been used to explore the evolutionary history of these mutualistic interactions. Using PCR amplification with procaryote-specific primers, DNA sequences have been obtained for the 16S ribosomal gene of the endosymbionts from approximately 20 species of Sternorrhyncha, including 13 aphids. On the basis of these sequences as well as published 16S sequences from representative procaryotes, a phylogenetic tree has been constructed, using parsimony methods. Results indicate that the primary endosymbionts of aphids belong to a single distinctive clade that has descended from a single infection of a common ancestor of aphids; this conclusion is based on complete congruence between the phylogenetic tree for the endosymbionts and that for the aphid hosts. Based on fossils that give minimal ages for certain of the aphid lineages, the association is at least 80 million years old. The rate of change of the 16S sequence is roughly constant among lineages within the aphid primary endosymbiont clade. Again using fossil dating, we have estimated absolute rates of substitution, and estimates are consistent for three different aphid clades. These rates have been used to test the hypothesis based on a biogeographic argument that the divergence between the Asian and American members of the Melaphidina dates to the Eocene (approximately 50 MY ago): the molecular data are highly supportive of the hypothesis. The 16S genes of secondary endosymbionts of aphids and of endosymbionts of mealybugs and whiteflies have also been sequenced, and results indicate that, for each insect group, endosymbiotic bacteria are descendants of independent infections by other members of the gamma-subdivision of the Proteobacteria for each insect group.	1994	91	
ZAVARZIN, GA	MICROBIAL BIOGEOGRAPHY	ZHURNAL OBSHCHEI BIOLOGII	Microbial geography should be based not on the species diversity and their habitat distribution but on the correlation between landscape and microbial community, which develops within the given landscape to fit its climatic, lithological, and orographic features. Microbes are not sensitive to the factor of geographic isolation, so microbe species (e.g. hyperthermophiles) are able to develop in any site with respective ecological niche. Microbial -community and its geochemical activity are determined by its intimate interaction with geographically dependent environmental factors.	1994	55	
KENNEDY, AD	WATER AS A LIMITING FACTOR IN THE ANTARCTIC TERRESTRIAL ENVIRONMENT - A BIOGEOGRAPHICAL SYNTHESIS	ARCTIC AND ALPINE RESEARCH	The question is posed: what limits the presence, distribution, and abundance of life in Antarctica? Traditionally, continental isolation has been considered to restrict the arrival of new species and extreme cold to limit the survival of successful immigrants. However, recent biogeographical evidence suggests that water may play a primary role: clear correlations exist between moisture availability and the distribution and abundance of organisms on the vertical, horizontal, and temporal scales. At the continental scale there is a close relationship between substratum biotic/abiotic status and gradients in meltwater, seepage, and up-welling. At the microhabitat level, the abundance of nematodes, tardigrades, rotifers, and microarthropods is directly proportional to microvariations in relative humidity. Upward migration of soil microalgae in response to water availability, together with seasonal population peaks of bacteria, algae, and protozoa at snow-thaw, suggest moisture limitation on vertical and temporal scales. It is concluded that, in Antarctica, many of the limiting effects previously attributed to low temperature may in fact operate through the water balance of organisms. Although Antarctica is the coldest place on Earth, water appears to be the primary limiting factor.	1993	25	10.2307/1551914
SOJA, CM	CARBONATE PLATFORM EVOLUTION IN A SILURIAN OCEANIC ISLAND - A CASE-STUDY FROM ALASKA ALEXANDER TERRANE	JOURNAL OF SEDIMENTARY PETROLOGY	Silurian limestones exposed in the Alexander terrane of Alaska are the oldest carbonates of wide distribution in the region and represent the evolution of a shallow-marine platform in an island-are setting during waning volcanism and the onset of orogenesis. Four main stages in carbonate platform development are recognized, beginning with calcareous turbidites that accumulated on a volcaniclastic ramp in a slope environment. Overlying deposits record the formation of a metazoan-dominated fringing reef and of backreef sites that were affected by cyclic changes in water depth and sedimentation patterns. Following the earliest effects of orogenesis and widespread progradation of conglomerates, small bioherms and biostromes grew in shallow subtidal settings on the rejuvenated platform. Contemporaneously, a consortium of microbial organisms associated with accessory metazoans, principally sphinctozoans, created a rimmed carbonate shelf with the construction of stromatolite reefs at the seaward edge of the platform. During platform drowning, downslope transport from the platform margin resulted in significant accumulations of reefal material as debris flows and slumps along a deep-marine slope. Carbonate sedimentation was terminated within the are as a result of uplift, shoaling, and progradation of a elastic wedge during culminating phases of the Klakas orogeny in the Late Silurian-Early Devonian. This island-are suite is characterized by extraordinarily thick platform and periplatform carbonates, sequential evolution of fringing and barrier reefs, and patterns of faunal turnover that differentiate these deposits from coeval carbonates that formed under different tectonic conditions. A model for carbonate deposition in island arcs, involving high rates of sediment accumulation, steep submarine slopes, crustal instability, and biogeographic isolation, contributes new data about carbonate platform development in tectonically active oceanic settings.	1993	63	
MORAN, NA; MUNSON, MA; BAUMANN, P; ISHIKAWA, H	A MOLECULAR CLOCK IN ENDOSYMBIOTIC BACTERIA IS CALIBRATED USING THE INSECT HOSTS	PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY B-BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES	The primary endosymbionts of aphids are maternally inherited bacteria that live only within specialized host cells. Phylogenetic analysis of the 16S ribosomal DNA sequences of aphid endosymbionts reveals that they are a monophyletic group with a phylogeny completely concordant with that of their hosts, implying long-term cospeciation. Here we show that rates of base substitution are similar in the 16S ribosomal DNA of different endosymbiont lineages. In addition, we calibrate these rates by assigning age estimates for ancestral aphid hosts to the corresponding endosymbionts. The resulting rate estimates (1-2% per 50 Ma) are among the most reliable available for prokaryotes. They are very near values previously conjectured by using more tenuous assumptions for dating divergence events in eubacteria. Rates calibrated using dates inferred from fossil aphids imply that Asian and American species of the aphid tribe Melaphidina diverged by the early Eocene; this result confirms an earlier hypothesis based on biogeographic evidence. Based on these rate estimates, the minimum age of this endosymbiotic association and the age of aphids as a whole is estimated at 160-280 Ma.	1993	253	10.1098/rspb.1993.0098
HAVE, A	EFFECTS OF AREA AND PATCHINESS ON SPECIES RICHNESS - AN EXPERIMENTAL ARCHIPELAGO OF CILIATE MICROCOSMS	OIKOS	Five sizes of freshwater microcosms, ranging from 5 to 60 cm2 and submerged in a plastic barrel, were colonized by a diverse ciliate species pool, two Rotifer species and one Eucypris sp. (Ostracoda). Microcosms were linked by dispersal and placed at varying distances from the colonization source. The experimental universe was thus considered to be an archipelago analogue. The addition of nutrients for food-bacteria and a 20% replacement of the freshwater medium in the microcosms every two weeks ensured a constant chemical environment. Microcosms were monitored four times over a period of 18 months. A distance effect was observed on the species level but not on the average number of species. The species-area relationship was estimated by taking the average of all the censuses for microcosms of equal size (S = 0.64A0.16 r2 = 0.97). The isolation of 18 microcosms produced area-dependent extinction patterns with a final species-area relationship S = cA0.40 (r2 = 0.93) after 90 d of isolation. The result support the area-per-se hypothesis, because of homogeneity between microcosms (except for area). The results also demonstrate the importance of dispersal and spatial heterogeneity for overall population persistence and dynamics. A specific example is provided by Stentor polymorphus and Colpidium colpoda, which seems to be an impossible combination in single microcosms. However, global coexistence is ensured due to patchiness and differing dispersal abilities.	1993	66	10.2307/3544944
GOSINK, JJ; IRGENS, RL; STALEY, JT	VERTICAL-DISTRIBUTION OF BACTERIA IN ARCTIC SEA ICE	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Heterotrophic bacteria were enumerated in north polar sea ice cores obtained near Point Barrow, Alaska. Highest concentrations of total and viable bacteria were found in the layer containing the sea ice microbial community identified by the maximum chlorophyll a content. Gas vacuolate bacteria were also found in the sea ice, a discovery which is consistent with their recent report from antarctic sea ice microbial communities. The gas vacuolate bacteria comprised 0.2% or less of the viable bacteria isolated from sea ice cores, lower than concentrations reported for most antarctic samples. Most gas vacuolate isolates from the sea ice cores were pigmented pink, orange, or yellow. An ice core from nearby saline Elson Lagoon contained an inverted sea ice microbial community with highest chlorophyll a concentrations and bacterial counts found in the top 0-20 cm of the ice. This surface layer also contained high numbers (up to 186 bacteria/ml) of a nonpigmented, gas vacuolate, elongated rod-shaped bacterium.	1993	102	10.1016/0378-1097(93)90003-K
NAVONE, GT; SURIANO, DM	PTERIGODERMATITES (PAUCIPECTINES) SPINICAUDATIS N-SP (NEMATODA, RICTULARIDAE) FROM DROMICIOPS-AUSTRALIS (MARSUPIALIA, MICROBIOTHERIIDAE) IN BARILOCHE, RIO-NEGRO, ARGENTINA - BIOGEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION AND HOST-PARASITE RELATIONSHIPS	MEMORIAS DO INSTITUTO OSWALDO CRUZ	Pterigodermatites (P.) spinicaudatis sp. n. from Dromiciops australis is proposed and described. The simple morphology of the ovijector and the presence of a well developed spine between the two cuticular projections at the caudal extremity of the female distinguish the studied nematode from the remainder species of the genus parasitizing South American Edentata, marsupials and cricetid rodents. The distribution area of the hosts of the different species of P. (P.) are given. The studied genus does not parasitize any Australian marsupials. It was found in the endemic South American Microbiotheriidae. This fact suggests from a parasitological point of view that D. australis is not related to the Australian marsupials but to the South American ones.	1992	87	
VALDES, AM; PINERO, D	PHYLOGENETIC ESTIMATION OF PLASMID EXCHANGE IN BACTERIA	EVOLUTION	The existence of differential horizontal gene transfer may be assessed by comparing the phylogenetic trees derived from two different genes. We use this concept to estimate quantitatively the amount of plasmid exchange that has occurred in a bacterial population. By means of computer simulations we studied the effect of gene transfer on the topological distortion between two phylogenetic trees: one obtained from an euchromosomal gene and another from a plasmid-borne sequence, which may be subjected to horizontal transfer. The basic assumptions of our simulations were (a) that plasmid exchange had occurred recently (after the last population split); and (b) that either the amount of chromosomal horizontal exchange was negligible or that it was only a fraction of the amount of plasmid exchange in which case we will be estimating relative amounts of plasmid transfer. We found that the topological difference between two such trees is a function of the number of plasmid exchange events that have occurred. It can be explained by a logistic model that relates the average distortion index between two trees (d(T)) to the number of transfer events (x). The behavior remains the same under different conditions that were tested (symmetry of the topology, number of taxa in the tree, effect of reconstruction errors, mutation after plasmid transfer). We have also tried our method on empirical data from the literature and estimated the amount of gene transfer that may have occurred among Sym plasmids in agricultural field populations of Rhizobium leguminosarum biovar phaseoli. We found that between 15.77 to 29.98% of all genetic types in these populations have been either the source or the target of a plasmid transfer event. When the comparisons were made among trees derived exclusively from plasmid probes this value dropped to 2.00%. Phylogenetic trees derived from symbiotic and nonsymbiotic sequences were also used to infer the number of gene transfer events among 11 isolates from R. galegae. The estimated number of transfer events of symbiotic sequences was 10.515 (although we do not know out of how many genetic types). We concluded that intraspecific transfer of symbiotic sequences is widespread in these two species of the genus Rhizobium.	1992	46	10.2307/2409634
KIRSCH, JAW; DICKERMAN, AW; REIG, OA; SPRINGER, MS	DNA HYBRIDIZATION EVIDENCE FOR THE AUSTRALASIAN AFFINITY OF THE AMERICAN MARSUPIAL DROMICIOPS-AUSTRALIS	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	DNA hybridization was used to compare representatives of the major groups of marsupials and a eutherian outgroup. Because of the large genetic distances separating marsupial families, trees were calculated from normalized percentages of hybridization; thermal-melting statistics, however, gave identical topologies for the well-supported clades. The most notable results were the association of the only extant microbiotheriid, Dromiciops australis, an American marsupial, with the Australasian Diprotodontia, and of both together with the Dasyuridae. Estimates of the rate of divergence among marsupial genomes suggest that the Dromiciops-Diprotodontia split occurred almost-equal-to 50 million years ago, well after the establishment of the major clades of marsupials but before deep oceanic barriers prohibited dispersal among Australia, Antarctica, and South America. Because Dromiciops is nested within an Australasian group, it seems likely that dispersal from Australia accounts for its present distribution.	1991	88	10.1073/pnas.88.23.10465
SOUTHWARD, EC	3 NEW SPECIES OF POGONOPHORA, INCLUDING 2 VESTIMENTIFERANS, FROM HYDROTHERMAL SITES IN THE LAU BACK-ARC BASIN (SOUTHWEST PACIFIC-OCEAN)	JOURNAL OF NATURAL HISTORY	Hydrothermal fields on the Valu Fa Ridge at about 22-degrees-32S, 176-degrees-43W, were explored by the submersible Nautile during the French BIOLAU expedition in 1989. Pogonophorans were found during six of the 12 dives, at depths of about 1900 m. They were exposed to the influence of hydrothermal fluids but probably did not experience elevated temperatures. One new species of sediment-living perviate pogonophore was collected. Two new obturate pogonophores (vestimentiferans), one belonging to a new family, lived attached to hard substrata. There is a complete faunistic separation of the Lau Basin vestimentiferans from the eastern Pacific vent faunas. Families as well as genera are different, and the Lau species appear to have more in common with cold seep faunas.	1991	25	10.1080/00222939100770571
FOGG, GE	TANSLEY REVIEW .30. THE PHYTOPLANKTONIC WAYS OF LIFE	NEW PHYTOLOGIST	The adaptations of phytoplankton to life in suspension in water are considered with particular reference to hydromechanical factors ranging from molecular motion to ocean currents. The smallest phytoplankton, the picoplankton (0.2-2.0-mu-m), are the best adapted to the physico-chemical environment of the open waters of seas and lakes and, other things being equal, can out-compete the larger forms. The picophytoplankton are an autotrophic component in a microbial community, the ultraplankton, which also includes bacteria and flagellates up to about 20-mu-m in linear dimensions. This community is a highly dynamic and self-contained equilibrium system operating within a domain dominated by molecular diffusion. Within the photic zone it is limited, not by nutrient supply, but by its internal predator-prey relationships. It appears to be cosmopolitan, both in the sea and in freshwaters, to vary little either in time or space in species composition or in biomass concentration, and to contribute a minimum of organic carbon to higher trophic levels. There appears to be a fundamental divide in form and function between this and the microplankton, composed of organisms larger than about 20-mu-m. This community can only develop when nutrient levels are in excess of the concentrations required by the picoplankton. It is opportunistic, non-equilibrium in its dynamics, and highly variable in floristic composition and biomass concentration. Its life processes are dominated by turbulence. Nutrient supply is largely determined by turbulent eddy diffusion and movement of the organisms relative to the water mass. The microphytoplankton falls broadly into two types, one of which, exemplified by the diatoms, depends on turbulence to maintain it in the photic zone and the other, exemplified by the dinoflagellates and colony-forming cyanobacteria, relies on motility or buoyancy control to position it in a relatively stable water column so as to have best access to light and nutrients. The waxing and waning of microplankton populations is largely determined by hydrography and their floristic compositions by the interactions of the daily and seasonal rhythms of the organisms with the periodicities in the environment. In contrast to the ultraplankton microplankton species show distinct differences in biogeographical distribution. Throughout the discussion attention is drawn to the intimate relationships between the activities of phytoplankton and those of viruses, bacteria and zooplankton and the impossibility of getting a proper understanding of the physiology of the phytoplankton if they are considered in isolation.	1991	118	10.1111/j.1469-8137.1991.tb00974.x
BENNINGHOFF, WS	AEROBIOLOGY AND ITS SIGNIFICANCE TO BIOGEOGRAPHY AND ECOLOGY	GRANA	Fifty years ago aerobiology concentrated on seasonal diffusion of phytopathic fungus spores and aeroallergens. Subsequently, more divers approaches have been applied to problems with widely different organisms involved in the aerobiological pathway, including bacteria, algae, protozoans, and minute arthropods. Aerobiology is used increasingly to gather biogeographic and ecological information, much of which is essential for conservation and environmental protection programs. Biogeography compiles distribution records of indigenous and invading species initially, but aerosol monitoring is more efficient in detecting changes in range margins, which can be useful proxy indicators of environmental change and spread of species of special concern. Aerobiologys contributions to ecology are numerous and diverse. For example, adaptations of anemophilous flowers for entraining pollen grains within millimeters of stigmas, electrostatic charges given to spores released ballistically, and responses of charged particles to electric fields and charged surfaces in seasonally dry and truly arid environments are studied by aerobiologists. At larger scales, monitoring of spores, pollen, and certain microbiota in aerosols can measure changes in phenology of source populations. Evidence of environmental change is best measured when the sampling time intervals and the data points in a geographic information system net are adjusted to fit the questions being asked. Identifying and tabulating aerosol particles are made more efficient by automated morphometric classification, counting, and size grading. Fluorescent and multispectral microscopy will permit more precise identifications.	1991	30	
SCHULTE, F; POINAR, GO	ON THE GEOGRAPHICAL-DISTRIBUTION AND PARASITISM OF RHABDITIS-(PELODERA)-ORBITALIS (NEMATODA, RHABDITIDAE)	JOURNAL OF THE HELMINTHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF WASHINGTON	Successful crossings between Californian and European populations proved the nematode Rhabditis (Pelodera) orbitalis to be of holarctic distribution. Larvae of this species occur in the lachrymal fluid of small rodents, whereas its free-living (microbivorous) stages live in the nesting material. No pathogenic effects were observed in rodents infected by the nematode larvae. Interfertility of the 2 separated populations is discussed on the basis of stabilizing conditions in the nematodes microhabitat in both the Old and the New Worlds.	1991	58	
TUNNICLIFFE, V	THE BIOLOGY OF HYDROTHERMAL VENTS - ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION	OCEANOGRAPHY AND MARINE BIOLOGY	The phenomenon of hydrothermal venting is a product of the deep-earth processes that drive plate tectonics and the genesis of ocean crust at spreading centres. Trapped sea water circulates below the crust and emerges near spreading axes as heated fluids with many dissolved substances derived from the lower rocks. It is the presence of dissolved sulphide ions that is responsible for the formation of polymetallic sulphide deposits and of unusual animal communities in which chemosynthetic microbes produce organic carbon. The best known vent sites are those on the Galapagos Rift, the East Pacific Rise and in the northeast Pacific. Recent discoveries include vents at back-arc spreading centres in the western Pacific and on the Mid-Atlantic Ridge. Chemoautolithotrophic bacteria form the base of the trophic structure at vent communities in at least four pathways: in the emergent plume that disperses over large distances, in local particulates used by vent suspension-feeders, in the microbial mats consumed by grazers and in symbiotic association with macro-invertebrates. The vent macrofauna is now known to have 236 species, of which 223 are new to science. The fauna is endemic and taxonomically distinct from that of the normal deep-sea. Faunal biomass is several orders of magnitude higher than that of the deep-sea although diversity is markedly low. Little is known about the biology of most vent species although the more spectacular animals have received attention. Several features of reproduction and growth of the vent tube-worms, bivalves, polychaetes, and crabs have been studied for clues to larval dispersal and recruitment; no vent-specific pattern is recognised. Variations in vent outflow and in fluid chemistry may cause much local heterogeneity. Distinct groups of organisms can be identified in relation to venting vigour and the supply of dissolved sulphides. Competition for such fluids may alter the aspect of an assemblage over time. The requirement for mutually exclusive oxygen and sulphide molecules in symbiont-hosts has fostered adaptations for spatial separation of uptake sites or for temporal separation as local turbulence induces fluctuations in dissolved concentrations. It is likely that any one vent field exists for decades during which time several generations may establish, but development of field-specific adaptations will not occur. Substantial changes in biota have been witnessed at several vents in which both geological and biological agents have been implicated. Vent fields may be separated by tens to hundreds of kilometres while magmatic processes controlling rifting may separate vent sites over many ridge segments. Faunal composition over large distances is not predictable and may relate to larval dispersal and chance recruitment. The vent fauna may have several origins including the adjacent deep-sea, shallow water and a pool of opportunistic sulphide-exploiters. But most vent animals have no extant close relatives and represent new taxonomic levels above the genus. Several taxa suggest a great antiquity and that evolutionary divergence of much of the assemblage may have occurred in the Mesozoic. Biogeographic work in concert with study of tectonic history suggests that geology has a tight control on the modern features of vent communities especially when considering Cenozoic plate patterns. Information on evolution of vent fauna from paleontological evidence is sparse but, late Palaeozoic assemblages are described. The only constraint on the invasion of this rich habitat by megafauna is the availability of dissolved oxygen in the deep-sea. Whether or not life originated at vents in the Archaean is debatable, but hydrothermal conditions probably supported chemosynthetic microbes early in their evolution.	1991	29	
LIU, XL; WANG, DF	A NEW FAUNA - QINGHEZHEN FAUNA - FROM THE NORTHERN MARGIN OF THE NORTH CHINA PLATFORM	ACTA GEOLOGICA SINICA-ENGLISH EDITION	In the Inner Mongolia axis and Jiaoliao anteclise along the northern margin of the North China Platform. it has been found that the strata formerly considered as Archaean and Proterozoic are in fact an ophiolite suite similar to the Early Palaeozoic Ondor Sum Group in the Northern Geosyncline region of China. The strata have been named in northern Liaoning as the Qinghezhen Group. The emphasis of this paper is on the discussion of the small shelly fossils found in the siliceous rocks in the upper part of the Quinghezhen Group. This ophiolite suite stretches in an E-W direction for about 1000 km along the northern margin of the North China Platform, in which 15 fossil localities with stable stratigraphic horizons have been discovered. In this paper. 4 types. 7 genera (including 5 new ones) and 10 species (including 8 new ones and 1 new subspecies) are described, which are collectively referred to as the Qinghezhen Fauna. The characteristics of these fossils are: shell form simple, the maximum length not exceeding 4mm, with obvious shell wall and wall ornaments. The Qinghezhen Fauna is comparable in shell structure of some genera and species with the Meishucun Fauna in South China, but differs from the latter in having only monotonous fossil groups developed in a distinctly varied ecological environment. The two faunas may belong to the same evolutionary stage of the Early Cambrian but have developed parallelly in different regions. The existence of the Qinghezhen Fauna represents an important biological event in the Early Cambrian in the Northern Geosyncline region of China. The discovery of the Qinghezhen Fauna will bring new knowledge and profound influence to a series of problems on basic geology and mineral deposit prospecting such as the Cambrian faunas, biogeographical povincialism in China and the geotectonic features of the northern margin of the North China Platform.	1990	3	
