AU	TI	SO	AB	PY	VL	DI
Wang, XB; Lu, XT; Yao, J; Wang, ZW; Deng, Y; Cheng, WX; Zhou, JZ; Han, XG	Habitat-specific patterns and drivers of bacterial beta-diversity in Chinas drylands	ISME JOURNAL	The existence of biogeographic patterns among most free-living microbial taxa has been well established, yet little is known about the underlying mechanisms that shape these patterns. Here, we examined soil bacterial beta-diversity across different habitats in the drylands of northern China. We evaluated the relative importance of environmental factors versus geographic distance to a distance-decay relationship, which would be explained by the relative effect of basic ecological processes recognized as drivers of diversity patterns in macrobial theoretical models such as selection and dispersal. Although the similarity of bacterial communities significantly declined with increasing geographic distance, the distance-decay slope and the relative importance of factors driving distance-decay patterns varied across different habitats. A strong distance-decay relationship was observed in the alpine grassland, where the community similarity was influenced only by the environmental factors. In contrast, geographic distance was solely responsible for community similarity in the desert. Even the average compositional similarity among locations in the desert was distinctly lower compared with those in other habitats. We found no evidence that dispersal limitation strongly influenced the beta-diversity of bacterial communities in the desert grassland and typical grassland. Together, our results provide robust evidence of habitat specificity for microbial diversity patterns and their underlying drivers. Our findings suggest that microorganisms also have multiple drivers of diversity patterns and some of which may be parallel to some fundamental processes for explaining biodiversity patterns in macroorganisms.	2017	11	10.1038/ismej.2017.11
Zhang, S; Song, WZ; Yu, M; Lin, XZ	Comparative genomics analysis of five Psychrobacter strains isolated from world-wide habitats reveal high intra-genus variations	EXTREMOPHILES	Psychrobacter has been regarded as an important genus for bacterial cold adaptation studies. However, members of this genus are highly varied in terms of both cold adaptability and genome content. To get an understanding of the diversity of members of this genus, five Psychrobacter strains (G, K5, 273-4, PAMC21119 and PRwf-1), with publicly available complete/draft genome, were selected and comprehensive comparative genomics analyses were performed among them. The closest phylogenetic relationship, highest average nucleotide identity (96.78%) and best sequence synteny were identified between strains G and K5. These findings suggest they belong to the same species, despite the long geographic distance between them (Antarctic and Siberia). 4542 gene clusters in total were identified from the five genomes, and of which 1424 were shared by all of them. The number of genes unique to strains G, K5, 273-4, PAMC21119 and PRwf-1 are 183, 188, 300, 637 and 665, respectively. COG assignment revealed their differences in gene content related to stress response. The extensive sequence rearrangements and the large number of genes unique to strain PAMC21119 and PRwf-1 suggest they may have experienced a high level of gene exchanges in the permafrost soil and the surface of fish skin.	2017	21	10.1007/s00792-017-0927-1
Yao, MJ; Rui, JP; Niu, HS; Hedenec, P; Li, JB; He, ZL; Wang, JM; Cao, WD; Li, XZ	The differentiation of soil bacterial communities along a precipitation and temperature gradient in the eastern Inner Mongolia steppe	CATENA	Understanding the differentiation of soil bacterial communities under precipitation and temperature gradients is crucial for assessing the impacts of environmental filters on ecosystem structure and function. Here we investigated spatial variations of bacterial communities along a precipitation and temperature transect in the eastern Inner Mongolia steppe, China. The aims are to understand the biogeographic pattern and key drivers shaping soil bacterial communities along the transect. Our results shoved that the soil bacterial community along the 451-km transect exhibited the distance-decay relationship, decreasing in community similarity with geographic distance. Obvious changes in the bacterial community structure occurred at an annual precipitation from 215 to 261 mm, which was close to the boundary between arid and semi-arid systems. The relative abundances of Proteobacteria, Bacteroidetes, and Acidobacteria increased with precipitation, while those of Actinobacteria, Chloroflexi, and Gemmatimonadetes decreased. Environmental filtering was observed to be the key in shaping bacterial biogeographic patterns, and climate conditions exert indirect effects on soil bacterial communities mainly through direct effects on soil properties. Soil pH and plant coverage were important to soil bacterial communities in both arid and semi-arid steppes. Our findings provided insights for understanding the linkages among geographic distance, environmental filters, and soil bacterial communities in Eurasian steppe ecosystems. (C) 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2017	152	10.1016/j.catena.2017.01.007
Zhao, F; Xu, KD	Distribution of Ciliates in Intertidal Sediments across Geographic Distances: A Molecular View	PROTIST	The estimation of the diversity and geographic distribution of protists in particular ciliates has long been an ongoing debate. We estimated the distribution of ciliates in intertidal sediments with geographic distance ranging from 10 cm to 1,000 km, using high-throughput DNA sequencing. Higher community similarity, in particular that of rare ciliate taxa, occurred between replicates than between sites. Statistical analyses showed that the community dissimilarities of both abundant and moderately abundant ciliates had correlations with geographic distance at the scales of 50 m, 200 km and 1000 km, indicating a distance-decay relationship. No significant correlation was observed for rare taxa. The analysis of Bray-Curtis similarity showed a higher pairwise community similarity in abundant taxa than in moderately abundant taxa, and that in rare taxa was the lowest. Abundant taxa usually can disperse in a wider range than rare taxa, though their distribution is restricted by distance to some extent. Rare taxa are potentially more sensitive to changing environments, but no distance-decay relationship could be observed. The data indicate contrasting patterns of geographic distribution of the abundant and rare ciliate taxa and a weak distance-decay relationship for relatively abundant taxa at a scale over 50 m. (C) 2017 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.	2017	168	10.1016/j.protis.2017.01.001
Kang, LL; Jiang, QQ; Tan, CH	Remarkable advocates: An investigation of geographic distance and social capital for crowdfunding	INFORMATION & MANAGEMENT	This study investigates the advocates of crowdfunding projects. Advocates refer to individuals who have invested in a project, and the information of such endorsement is spread through their social networks. By using a combined set of sizable data, this research empirically examines the relationships between two attributes of advocates, namely their geographical distance and social capital, and funding performance. Results reveal that higher funding can be secured with advocates who are (1) of further geographical distance and (2) of higher social capital. Additionally, the relationship between advocates social capital and funding performance is further enhanced with a lower geographical propinquity. (C) 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2017	54	10.1016/j.im.2016.09.001
Whittaker, KA; Rynearson, TA	Evidence for environmental and ecological selection in a microbe with no geographic limits to gene flow	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	The ability for organisms to disperse throughout their environment is thought to strongly influence population structure and thus evolution of diversity within species. A decades-long debate surrounds processes that generate and support high microbial diversity, particularly in the ocean. The debate concerns whether diversification occurs primarily through geographic partitioning (where distance limits gene flow) or through environmental selection, and remains unresolved due to lack of empirical data. Here we show that gene flow in a diatom, an ecologically important eukaryotic microbe, is not limited by global-scale geographic distance. Instead, environmental and ecological selection likely play a more significant role than dispersal in generating and maintaining diversity. We detected significantly diverged populations (FST > 0.130) and discovered temporal genetic variability at a single site that was on par with spatial genetic variability observed over distances of 15,000 km. Relatedness among populations was decoupled from geographic distance across the global ocean and instead, correlated significantly with water temperature and whole-community chlorophyll a. Correlations with temperature point to the importance of environmental selection in structuring populations. Correlations with whole-community chlorophyll a, a proxy for autotrophic biomass, suggest that ecological selection via interactions with other plankton may generate and maintain population genetic structure in marine microbes despite globalscale dispersal. Here, we provide empirical evidence for global gene flow in a marine eukaryotic microbe, suggesting that everything holds the potential to be everywhere, with environmental and ecological selection rather than geography or dispersal dictating the structure and evolution of diversity over space and time.	2017	114	10.1073/pnas.1612346114
Marino, CM; Pawlik, JR; Lopez-Legentil, S; Erwin, PM	Latitudinal variation in the microbiome of the sponge Ircinia campana correlates with host haplotype but not anti-predatory chemical defense	MARINE ECOLOGY PROGRESS SERIES	Many marine sponges host diverse symbiotic microbial communities that have been implicated in the production of secondary metabolites. These metabolites may defend the host sponge from potential predators. Variability in symbiont communities across the range of the host sponge could alter levels of chemical defense. To investigate the relationship between symbiont composition and chemical defense, the microbiomes and palatability of tissue samples from Ircinia campana were characterized from 5 sites along a latitudinal gradient spanning temperate (South Atlantic Bight, SAB) and tropical (Caribbean) regions. Terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis and Illumina sequencing of 16S ribosomal RNA genes revealed that I. campana from different locations contained significantly distinct microbiomes and exhibited a consistent relationship of lower symbiont similarity over greater geographic distance (i.e. distance-decay). However, crude organic extracts of all samples of I. campana were unpalatable to assay fish Thalassoma bifasciatum in laboratory assays, indicating no difference in chemical defense across locations. Distinct haplotypes of I. campana were detected in populations from the SAB and Caribbean, correlating with the observed patterns of latitudinal variation in microbial symbiont communities. Our findings indicate that I. campana is chemically defended from fish predators across the range of the species and that latitudinal variation occurs in the microbiome of I. campana, driven by a combination of host-specific factors and region-specific environmental filtering of symbiont communities.	2017	565	10.3354/meps12015
Price, MR; ORorke, R; Amend, AS; Hadfield, MG	Diet selection at three spatial scales: Implications for conservation of an endangered Hawaiian tree snail	BIOTROPICA	Several recent studies suggest local adaptation in multiple taxa across Hawaiis steep environmental gradients. Restoration efforts in devastated tropical island ecosystems may be deficient if we lack an understanding of the interactions and dependencies in communities that occur along these gradients. Endangered Hawaiian tree snails are part of a snail-epiphyte-plant system where they graze fungi and other microbes on the leaf surface, a process difficult to observe using conventional techniques. Tree snails have undergone catastrophic decline due to introduced predators, removal by shell collectors, and human-influenced habitat degradation. Prior to this study, little was known about the relationship among tree-snails, their host plants, and the epiphytic microbes on which they feed. In this study, we identified scale-dependent selection of substrates in Achatinella sowerbyana and Achatinella lila across the species ranges. We assessed: (1) within-plant diet selection using high-throughput DNA sequencing (micro-scale); (2) among-plant selection of tree host species (small-scale); (3) and the influence of climate on this system (macro-scale). Selection of substrates occurred at two scales: fungal communities in fecal samples differed in composition from those available on leaf surfaces; and at all sites, snail occurrence on Metrosideros polymorpha, a foundational forest plant, was significantly higher than expected based on availability. Habitat restoration efforts should focus on out-planting of M. polymorpha, the preferred snail host tree, in degraded habitat. Fungal differences across sites suggest relocation efforts to predator-free enclosures may be hindered by microbial shifts associated with geographic distance or differing environments.	2017	49	10.1111/btp.12339
Sierra-Garcia, IN; Dellagnezze, BM; Santos, VP; Chaves, MR; Capilla, R; Neto, EVS; Gray, N; Oliveira, VM	Microbial diversity in degraded and non-degraded petroleum samples and comparison across oil reservoirs at local and global scales	EXTREMOPHILES	Microorganisms have shown their ability to colonize extreme environments including deep subsurface petroleum reservoirs. Physicochemical parameters may vary greatly among petroleum reservoirs worldwide and so do the microbial communities inhabiting these different environments. The present work aimed at the characterization of the microbiota in biodegraded and non-degraded petroleum samples from three Brazilian reservoirs and the comparison of microbial community diversity across oil reservoirs at local and global scales using 16S rRNA clone libraries. The analysis of 620 16S rRNA bacterial and archaeal sequences obtained from Brazilian oil samples revealed 42 bacterial OTUs and 21 archaeal OTUs. The bacterial community from the degraded oil was more diverse than the non-degraded samples. Non-degraded oil samples were overwhelmingly dominated by gammaproteobacterial sequences with a predominance of the genera Marinobacter and Marinobacterium. Comparisons of microbial diversity among oil reservoirs worldwide suggested an apparent correlation of prokaryotic communities with reservoir temperature and depth and no influence of geographic distance among reservoirs. The detailed analysis of the phylogenetic diversity across reservoirs allowed us to define a core microbiome encompassing three bacterial classes (Gammaproteobacteria, Clostridia, and Bacteroidia) and one archaeal class (Methanomicrobia) ubiquitous in petroleum reservoirs and presumably owning the abilities to sustain life in these environments.	2017	21	10.1007/s00792-016-0897-8
Hermans, SM; Buckley, HL; Case, BS; Curran-Cournane, F; Taylor, M; Lear, G	Bacteria as Emerging Indicators of Soil Condition	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Bacterial communities are important for the health and productivity of soil ecosystems and have great potential as novel indicators of environmental per-turbations. To assess how they are affected by anthropogenic activity and to determine their ability to provide alternative metrics of environmental health, we sought to define which soil variables bacteria respond to across multiple soil types and land uses. We determined, through 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing, the composition of bacterial communities in soil samples from 110 natural or human-impacted sites, located up to 300 km apart. Overall, soil bacterial communities varied more in response to changing soil environments than in response to changes in climate or increasing geographic distance. We identified strong correlations between the relative abundances of members of Pirellulaceae and soil pH, members of Gaiellaceae and carbon-to-nitrogen ratios, members of Bradyrhizobium and the levels of Olsen P (a measure of plant available phosphorus), and members of Chitinophagaceae and aluminum concentrations. These relationships between specific soil attributes and individual soil taxa not only highlight ecological characteristics of these organisms but also demonstrate the ability of key bacterial taxonomic groups to reflect the impact of specific anthropogenic activities, even in comparisons of samples across large geographic areas and diverse soil types. Overall, we provide strong evidence that there is scope to use relative taxon abundances as biological indicators of soil condition. IMPORTANCE The impact of land use change and management on soil microbial community composition remains poorly understood. Therefore, we explored the relationship between a wide range of soil factors and soil bacterial community composition. We included variables related to anthropogenic activity and collected samples across a large spatial scale to interrogate the complex relationships between various bacterial community attributes and soil condition. We provide evidence of strong relationships between individual taxa and specific soil attributes even across large spatial scales and soil and land use types. Collectively, we were able to demonstrate the largely untapped potential of microorganisms to indicate the condition of soil and thereby influence the way that we monitor the effects of anthropogenic activity on soil ecosystems into the future.	2017	83	10.1128/AEM.02826-16
Ping, YA; Han, DX; Wang, N; Hu, YB; Mu, LQ; Feng, FJ	Vertical zonation of soil fungal community structure in a Korean pine forest on Changbai Mountain, China	WORLD JOURNAL OF MICROBIOLOGY & BIOTECHNOLOGY	Changbai Mountain, with intact montane vertical vegetation belts, is located at a sensitive area of global climate change and a central distribution area of Korean pine forest. Broad-leaved Korean pine mixed forest (Pinus koraiensis as an edificator) is the most representative zonal climax vegetation in the humid region of northeastern China; their vertical zonation is the most intact and representative on Changbai Mountain. In this study, we analyzed the composition and diversity of soil fungal communities in the Korean pine forest on Changbai Mountain at elevations ranging from 699 to 1177 m using Illumina High-throughput sequencing. We obtained a total 186,663 optimized sequences, with an average length of 268.81 bp. We found soil fungal diversity index was decreased with increasing elevation from 699 to 937 m and began to rise after reaching 1044 m; the richness and evenness indices were decreased with an increase in elevation. Soil fungal compositions at the phylum, class and genus levels varied significantly at different elevations, but with the same dominant fungi. Beta-diversity analysis indicated that the similarity of fungal communities decreased with an increased vertical distance between the sample plots, showing a distance-decay relationship. Variation partition analysis showed that geographic distance (mainly elevation gradient) only explained 20.53 % of the total variation of fungal community structure, while soil physicochemical factors explained 69.78 %.	2017	33	10.1007/s11274-016-2133-1
Wang, K; Ye, XS; Zhang, HJ; Chen, HP; Zhang, DM; Liu, L	Regional variations in the diversity and predicted metabolic potential of benthic prokaryotes in coastal northern Zhejiang, East China Sea	Scientific Reports	Knowledge about the drivers of benthic prokaryotic diversity and metabolic potential in interconnected coastal sediments at regional scales is limited. We collected surface sediments across six zones covering similar to 200 km in coastal northern Zhejiang, East China Sea and combined 16 S rRNA gene sequencing, community-level metabolic prediction, and sediment physicochemical measurements to investigate variations in prokaryotic diversity and metabolic gene composition with geographic distance and under local environmental conditions. Geographic distance was the most influential factor in prokaryotic beta-diversity compared with major environmental drivers, including temperature, sediment texture, acid-volatile sulfide, and water depth, but a large unexplained variation in community composition suggested the potential effects of unmeasured abiotic/biotic factors and stochastic processes. Moreover, prokaryotic assemblages showed a biogeographic provincialism across the zones. The predicted metabolic gene composition similarly shifted as taxonomic composition did. Acid-volatile sulfide was strongly correlated with variation in metabolic gene composition. The enrichments in the relative abundance of sulfate-reducing bacteria and genes relevant with dissimilatory sulfate reduction were observed and predicted, respectively, in the Yushan area. These results provide insights into the relative importance of geographic distance and environmental condition in driving benthic prokaryotic diversity in coastal areas and predict specific biogeochemically-relevant genes for future studies.	2016	6	10.1038/srep38709
Jones, DS; Schaperdoth, I; Macalady, JL	Biogeography of sulfur-oxidizing Acidithiobacillus populations in extremely acidic cave biofilms	ISME JOURNAL	Extremely acidic (pH 0-1.5) Acidithiobacillus-dominated biofilms known as snottites are found in sulfide-rich caves around the world. Given the extreme geochemistry and subsurface location of the biofilms, we hypothesized that snottite Acidithiobacillus populations would be genetically isolated. We therefore investigated biogeographic relationships among snottite Acidithiobacillus spp. separated by geographic distances ranging from meters to 1000s of kilometers. We determined genetic relationships among the populations using techniques with three levels of resolution: (i) 16S rRNA gene sequencing, (ii) 16S-23S intergenic transcribed spacer (ITS) region sequencing and (iii) multi-locus sequencing typing (MLST). We also used metagenomics to compare functional gene characteristics of select populations. Based on 16S rRNA genes, snottites in Italy and Mexico are dominated by different sulfur-oxidizing Acidithiobacillus spp. Based on ITS sequences, Acidithiobacillus thiooxidans strains from different cave systems in Italy are genetically distinct. Based on MLST of isolates from Italy, genetic distance is positively correlated with geographic distance both among and within caves. However, metagenomics revealed that At. thiooxidans populations from different cave systems in Italy have different sulfur oxidation pathways and potentially other significant differences in metabolic capabilities. In light of those genomic differences, we argue that the observed correlation between genetic and geographic distance among snottite Acidithiobacillus populations is partially explained by an evolutionary model in which separate cave systems were stochastically colonized by different ancestral surface populations, which then continued to diverge and adapt in situ.	2016	10	10.1038/ismej.2016.74
Choudoir, MJ; Doroghazi, JR; Buckley, DH	Latitude delineates patterns of biogeography in terrestrial Streptomyces	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	The biogeography of Streptomyces was examined at regional spatial scales to identify factors that govern patterns of microbial diversity. Streptomyces are spore forming filamentous bacteria which are widespread in soil. Streptomyces strains were isolated from perennial grass habitats sampled across a spatial scale of more than 6000 km. Previous analysis of this geographically explicit culture collection provided evidence for a latitudinal diversity gradient in Streptomyces species. Here the hypothesis that this latitudinal diversity gradient is a result of evolutionary dynamics associated with historical demographic processes was evaluated. Historical demographic phenomena have genetic consequences that can be evaluated through analysis of population genetics. Population genetic approaches were applied to analyze population structure in six of the most numerically abundant and geographically widespread Streptomyces phylogroups from our culture collection. Streptomyces population structure varied at regional spatial scales, and allelic diversity correlated with geographic distance. In addition, allelic diversity and gene flow are partitioned by latitude. Finally, it was found that nucleotide diversity within phylogroups was negatively correlated with latitude. These results indicate that phylogroup diversification is constrained by dispersal limitation at regional spatial scales, and they are consistent with the hypothesis that historical demographic processes have influenced the contemporary biogeography of Streptomyces.	2016	18	10.1111/1462-2920.13420
Yuan, HY; Ding, LJ; Wang, N; Chen, SC; Deng, Y; Li, XM; Zhu, YG	Geographic distance and amorphous iron affect the abundance and distribution of Geobacteraceae in paddy soils in China	JOURNAL OF SOILS AND SEDIMENTS	Purpose Geobacteraceae are important dissimilatory Fe (III)-reducing microorganisms, influencing the cycling of metals, nutrients as well as the degradation of organic contaminants. However, little is known about their distribution, diversity, and abundance of Geobacteraceae and the effects of environment factors and geographic distance on the distribution and diversity of Geobacteraceae in paddy soils remain unclear. Therefore, the objectives of this study were to investigate the distribution, diversity, and abundance of Geobacteraceae in paddy soils and to determine key factors in shaping the Geobacteraceae distribution, environmental factors, geographic distance, or both and to quantify their contribution to Geobacteraceae variation. Materials and methods Illumina sequencing and quantitative real-time PCR using a primer set targeting 16S rRNA genes of bacteria affiliated with the family Geobacteraceae were employed to measure the community composition, diversity, and abundance patterns of 16S rRNA genes of Geobacteraceae in 16 samples collected from north to south of China. MRT, Mantel test, and VPA were used to analyze the relationship between communities of Geobacteraceae and environmental factors and geographic distance. Results and discussion Quantitative PCR showed that the abundance of 16S rRNA genes of Geobacteraceae ranged from (1.20 +/- 0.18)x10(8) to 1.13x10(9)+/- 2.25x10(8) copies per gram of soil (dry weight) across different types of soils. Illumina sequencing results showed Geobacter was the dominant genus within the family of Geobacteraceae. Multivariate regression tree (MRT) analysis showed that soil amorphous iron contributed more (22.46 %) to the variation of dominant species of Geobacteraceae than other examined soil chemical factors such as pH (14.52 %), ammonium (5.12 %), and dissolved organic carbon (4.74 %). Additionally, more geographically distant sites harbored less similar communities. Variance partitioning analysis (VPA) showed that geographic distance contributed more to the variation of Geobacteraceae than any other factor, although the environmental factors explained more variation when combined. So, we detected the uneven distribution of Geobacteraceae in paddy soils of China and demonstrated that Geobacteraceae community composition was strongly associated with geographic distance and soil chemical factors including aFe, pH, Fe, DOC, C: N, and NO3--N. These results greatly expand the knowledge of the distribution of Geobacteraceae in environments, particularly in terrestrial ecosystems. Conclusions Our results showed that geographic distance and amorphous iron played important roles in shaping Geobacteraceae community composition and revealed that both geographic distance and soil properties governed Geobacteraceae biogeography in paddy soils. Our findings will be critical in facilitating the prediction of element cycling by incorporating information on functional microbial communities into current biogeochemical models.	2016	16	10.1007/s11368-016-1462-x
Jeong, SY; Yi, T; Lee, CH; Kim, TG	Spatiotemporal dynamics and correlation networks of bacterial and fungal communities in a membrane bioreactor	WATER RESEARCH	To systematically study biofilm communities responsible for biofouling in membrane bioreactors (MBRs), we characterized the spatiotemporal dynamics of bacterial and fungal biofilm communities, and their networks, in a pilot-scale flat-sheet MBR treating actual municipal wastewater. Activated sludge (AS) and membrane samples were collected on days 4 and 8. The membranes were cut into 18 tiles, and bacterial and fungal communities were analyzed using next generation sequencing. Nonmetric multidimensional scaling (NMDS) plots revealed significant temporal variations in bacterial and fungal biofilm communities due to changes in the abundances of a few dominant members. Although the experimental conditions and inoculum species pools remained constant, variogram plots of bacterial and fungal communities revealed decay in local community similarity with geographic distance at each sampling time. Variogram modeling (exponential rise to maximum, R-2 >= 0.79) revealed that decay patterns of both communities were different between days 4 and 8. In addition, networks of bacteria or fungi alone were distinct in network composition between days 4 and 8. The day-8 networks were more compact and clustered than those of the earlier time point. Bacteria-fungi networks show that the number of inter domain associations decreased from 113 to 40 with time, confirming that membrane biofilm is a complex consortium of bacteria and fungi. Spatiotemporal succession in biofilm communities may be common on MBR membranes, resulting from different geographic distributions of initial microbial populations and their priority effects. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2016	105	10.1016/j.watres.2016.09.001
Joseph, SJ; Li, B; Petit, RA; Qin, ZHS; Darrow, L; Read, TD	The single-species metagenome: subtyping Staphylococcus aureus core genome sequences from shotgun metagenomic data	PEERJ	In this study we developed a genome-based method for detecting Staphylococcus aureus subtypes from metagenome shotgun sequence data. We used a binomial mixture model and the coverage counts at >100,000 known S. aureus SNP (single nucleotide polymorphism) sites derived from prior comparative genomic analysis to estimate the proportion of 40 subtypes in metagenome samples. We were able to obtain >87% sensitivity and >94% specificity at 0.025X coverage for S. aureus. we found that 321 and 149 metagenome samples from the Human Microbiome Project and metaSUB analysis of the New York City subway, respectively, contained S. aureus at genome coverage >0.025. In both projects, CC8 and CC30 were the most common S. aureus clonal complexes encountered. We found evidence that the subtype composition at different body sites of the same individual were more similar than random sampling and more limited evidence that certain body sites were enriched for particular subtypes. One surprising finding was the apparent high frequency of CC398, a lineage often associated with livestock, in samples from the tongue dorsum. Epidemiologic analysis of the FIMP subject population suggested that high BMI (body mass index) and health insurance are possibly associated with S. aureus carriage but there was limited power to identify factors linked to carriage of even the most common subtype. In the NYC subway data, we found a small signal of geographic distance affecting subtype clustering but other unknown factors influence taxonomic distribution of the species around the city.	2016	4	10.7717/peerj.2571
Glynou, K; Ali, T; Buch, AK; Kia, SH; Ploch, S; Xia, XJ; Celik, A; Thines, M; Macia-Vicente, JG	The local environment determines the assembly of root endophytic fungi at a continental scale	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Root endophytic fungi are found in a great variety of plants and ecosystems, but the ecological drivers of their biogeographic distribution are poorly understood. Here, we investigate the occurrence of root endophytes in the non-mycorrhizal plant genus Microthlaspi, and the effect of environmental factors and geographic distance in structuring their communities at a continental scale. We sampled 52 plant populations across the northern Mediterranean and central Europe and used a cultivation approach to study their endophytic communities. Cultivation of roots yielded 2601 isolates, which were grouped into 296 operational taxonomic units (OTUs) by internal transcribed spacer sequencing of 1998 representative colonies. Climatic and spatial factors were the best descriptors of the structure of endophytic communities, outweighing soil characteristics, host genotype and geographical distance. OTU richness was negatively affected by precipitation, and the composition of communities followed latitudinal gradients of precipitation and temperature. Only six widespread OTUs belonging to the orders Pleosporales, Hypocreales and Helotiales represented about 50% of all isolates. Assessments of their individual distribution revealed particular ecological preferences or a cosmopolitan occurrence. Our findings support a strong influence of the local environment in determining root endophytic communities, and show a different niche occupancy by individual endophytes.	2016	18	10.1111/1462-2920.13112
Wang, XH; Wen, XH; Deng, Y; Xia, Y; Yang, YF; Zhou, JZ	Distance-Decay Relationship for Biological Wastewater Treatment Plants	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Patterns in the spatial distribution of organisms provide important information about mechanisms underlying biodiversity and the complexity of ecosystems. One of the most well-documented spatial patterns is the distance-decay relationship, which is a universal biogeographic pattern observed repeatedly for plant and animal communities, particularly for microorganisms in natural ecosystems such as soil, ocean, and salt marsh sediment. However, it is uncertain whether the microorganisms exhibit a distance-decay pattern in engineered ecosystems. Therefore, we measured the distance-decay relationship across various microbial functional and phylogenetic groups in 26 biological wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs) in China using a functional gene array (GeoChip 4.2). We found that microbial communities of activated sludge in WWTPs exhibited a significant but very weak distance-decay relationship. The taxon-area z values for different functional and phylogenetic groups were <0.0065, which is about 1 to 2 orders of magnitude lower than those observed in microbial communities elsewhere. Variation-partitioning analysis (VPA) showed that the relationships were driven by both environmental heterogeneity and geographic distance. Collectively, these results provided new insights into the spatial scaling of microbial communities in engineering ecosystems and highlighted the importance of environmental heterogeneity and geographic distance in shaping biogeographic patterns. IMPORTANCE Determining the distance-decay relationship of microbial biodiversity is important but challenging in microbial ecology. All studies to date are based on natural environments; thus, it remains unclear whether there is such a relationship in an engineered ecosystem. The present study shows that there is a very weak distance-decay relationship in an engineered ecosystem (WWTPs) at the regional-to-continental scale. This study makes fundamental contributions to a mechanistic, predictive understanding of microbial biogeography.	2016	82	10.1128/AEM.01071-16
Xia, ZW; Bai, E; Wang, QK; Gao, D; Zhou, JD; Jiang, P; Wu, JB	Biogeographic Distribution Patterns of Bacteria in Typical Chinese Forest Soils	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Microbes are widely distributed in soils and play a very important role in nutrient cycling and ecosystem services. To understand the biogeographic distribution of forest soil bacteria, we collected 115 soil samples in typical forest ecosystems across eastern China to investigate their bacterial community compositions using Illumina MiSeq high throughput sequencing based on 16S rRNA. We obtained 4,667,656 sequences totally and more than 70% of these sequences were classified into five dominant groups, i.e., Actinobactena, Acidobacteria, Alphaproteobacteria, Verrucomicrobia, and Planctomycetes (relative abundance >5%). The bacterial diversity showed a parabola shape along latitude and the maximum diversity appeared at latitudes between 33.50 degrees N and 40 degrees N, an area characterized by warm-temperate zones and moderate temperature, neutral soil pH and high substrate availability (soil C and N) from dominant deciduous broad-leaved forests. Pairwise dissimilarity matrix in bacterial community composition showed that bacterial community structure had regional similarity and the latitude of 30 degrees N could be used as the dividing line between southern and northern forest soils. Soil properties and climate conditions (MAT and MAP) greatly accounted for the differences in the soil bacterial structure. Among all soil parameters determined, soil pH predominantly affected the diversity and composition of the bacterial community, and soil pH = 5 probably could be used as a threshold below which soil bacterial diversity might decline and soil bacterial community structure might change significantly. Moreover, soil exchangeable cations, especially Ca2+ (ECa2+) and some other soil variables were also closely related to bacterial community structure. The selected environmental variables (21.11%) explained more of the bacterial community variation than geographic distance (15.88%), indicating that the edaphic properties and environmental factors played a more important role than geographic dispersal limitation in determining the bacterial community structure in Chinese forest soils.	2016	7	10.3389/fmicb.2016.01106
Nino-Garcia, JP; Ruiz-Gonzalez, C; del Giorgio, PA	Interactions between hydrology and water chemistry shape bacterioplankton biogeography across boreal freshwater networks	ISME JOURNAL	Disentangling the mechanisms shaping bacterioplankton communities across freshwater ecosystems requires considering a hydrologic dimension that can influence both dispersal and local sorting, but how the environment and hydrology interact to shape the biogeography of freshwater bacterioplankton over large spatial scales remains unexplored. Using Illumina sequencing of the 16S ribosomal RNA gene, we investigate the large-scale spatial patterns of bacterioplankton across 386 freshwater systems from seven distinct regions in boreal Quebec. We show that both hydrology and local water chemistry (mostly pH) interact to shape a sequential structuring of communities from highly diverse assemblages in headwater streams toward larger rivers and lakes dominated by fewer taxa. Increases in water residence time along the hydrologic continuum were accompanied by major losses of bacterial richness and by an increased differentiation of communities driven by local conditions (pH and other related variables). This suggests that hydrology and network position modulate the relative role of environmental sorting and mass effects on community assembly by determining both the time frame for bacterial growth and the composition of the immigrant pool. The apparent low dispersal limitation (that is, the lack of influence of geographic distance on the spatial patterns observed at the taxonomic resolution used) suggests that these boreal bacterioplankton communities derive from a shared bacterial pool that enters the networks through the smallest streams, largely dominated by mass effects, and that is increasingly subjected to local sorting of species during transit along the hydrologic continuum.	2016	10	10.1038/ismej.2015.226
Jiao, S; Liu, ZS; Lin, YB; Yang, J; Chen, WM; Wei, GH	Bacterial communities in oil contaminated soils: Biogeography and co-occurrence patterns	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	To improve the knowledge about the biogeographic patterns of bacteria in soils contaminated with crude oil, we studied the effects of local geochemical properties and geographic distance on bacterial community structure in oil contaminated soil in five oil refineries (46-360 km apart). The microbial structure was significantly affected by soil environmental factors such as pH, total petroleum hydrocarbons (TPH), total nitrogen, and cadmium level. Microbial alpha-diversity was positively correlated with pH but negatively correlated with TPH. Among sampling sites, the community dissimilarities increased with spatial distance. Variation of bacterial community was mostly attributed to simultaneous effects of spatial distance and environmental factors, and purely spatial distance contributed more to the variation. Microbial generalist OTUs were broadly distributed and dominant in contaminated soils. Their populations were in low proportion (15.75%), but they had high relative abundance (65.05%), and some were associated with TPH-degradation. Network analysis indicated that microbial communities had nonrandom co-occurrence patterns. Keystone taxa were Rubrivivax, Nitrospira, Methylotenera, Methyloversatilis and Acidaminobacter. Microbial taxa from the same module had strong ecological linkages and were involved in biological electron-transfer, C and N-cycles, and organic contaminant degradation. Our results indicate that the same microbial groups with TPH-degradation ability can be assembled from indigenous microorganisms in separate regions through long term exposure to contamination. (C) 2016 Published by Elsevier Ltd.	2016	98	10.1016/j.soilbio.2016.04.005
Lee, KC; Stott, MB; Dunfield, PF; Huttenhower, C; McDonald, IR; Morgan, XC	The Chthonomonas calidirosea Genome Is Highly Conserved across Geographic Locations and Distinct Chemical and Microbial Environments in New Zealands Taupo Volcanic Zone	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Chthonomonas calidirosea T49(T) is a low-abundance, carbohydrate-scavenging, and thermophilic soil bacterium with a seemingly disorganized genome. We hypothesized that the C. calidirosea genome would be highly responsive to local selection pressure, resulting in the divergence of its genomic content, genome organization, and carbohydrate utilization phenotype across environments. We tested this hypothesis by sequencing the genomes of four C. calidirosea isolates obtained from four separate geothermal fields in the Taupo Volcanic Zone, New Zealand. For each isolation site, we measured physicochemical attributes and defined the associated microbial community by 16S rRNA gene sequencing. Despite their ecological and geographical isolation, the genome sequences showed low divergence (maximum, 1.17%). Isolate-specific variations included single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), restriction-modification systems, and mobile elements but few major deletions and no major rearrangements. The 50-fold variation in C. calidirosea relative abundance among the four sites correlated with site environmental characteristics but not with differences in genomic content. Conversely, the carbohydrate utilization profiles of the C. calidirosea isolates corresponded to the inferred isolate phylogenies, which only partially paralleled the geographical relationships among the sample sites. Genomic sequence conservation does not entirely parallel geographic distance, suggesting that stochastic dispersal and localized extinction, which allow for rapid population homogenization with little restriction by geographical barriers, are possible mechanisms of C. calidirosea distribution. This dispersal and extinction mechanism is likely not limited to C. calidirosea but may shape the populations and genomes of many other low-abundance free-living taxa. IMPORTANCE This study compares the genomic sequence variations and metabolisms of four strains of Chthonomonas calidirosea, a rare thermophilic bacterium from the phylum Armatimonadetes. It additionally compares the microbial communities and chemistry of each of the geographically distinct sites from which the four C. calidirosea strains were isolated. C. calidirosea was previously reported to possess a highly disorganized genome, but it was unclear whether this reflected rapid evolution. Here, we show that each isolation site has a distinct chemistry and microbial community, but despite this, the C. calidirosea genome is highly conserved across all isolation sites. Furthermore, genomic sequence differences only partially paralleled geographic distance, suggesting that C. calidirosea genotypes are not primarily determined by adaptive evolution. Instead, the presence of C. calidirosea may be driven by stochastic dispersal and localized extinction. This ecological mechanism may apply to many other low-abundance taxa.	2016	82	10.1128/AEM.00139-16
Kuang, JL; Huang, LN; He, ZL; Chen, LX; Hua, ZS; Jia, P; Li, SJ; Liu, J; Li, JT; Zhou, JZ; Shu, WS	Predicting taxonomic and functional structure of microbial communities in acid mine drainage	ISME JOURNAL	Predicting the dynamics of community composition and functional attributes responding to environmental changes is an essential goal in community ecology but remains a major challenge, particularly in microbial ecology. Here, by targeting a model system with low species richness, we explore the spatial distribution of taxonomic and functional structure of 40 acid mine drainage (AMD) microbial communities across Southeast China profiled by 16S ribosomal RNA pyrosequencing and a comprehensive microarray (GeoChip). Similar environmentally dependent patterns of dominant microbial lineages and key functional genes were observed regardless of the large-scale geographical isolation. Functional and phylogenetic beta-diversities were significantly correlated, whereas functional metabolic potentials were strongly influenced by environmental conditions and community taxonomic structure. Using advanced modeling approaches based on artificial neural networks, we successfully predicted the taxonomic and functional dynamics with significantly higher prediction accuracies of metabolic potentials (average Bray-Curtis similarity 87.8) as compared with relative microbial abundances (similarity 66.8), implying that natural AMD microbial assemblages may be better predicted at the functional genes level rather than at taxonomic level. Furthermore, relative metabolic potentials of genes involved in many key ecological functions (for example, nitrogen and phosphate utilization, metals resistance and stress response) were extrapolated to increase under more acidic and metal-rich conditions, indicating a critical strategy of stress adaptation in these extraordinary communities. Collectively, our findings indicate that natural selection rather than geographic distance has a more crucial role in shaping the taxonomic and functional patterns of AMD microbial community that readily predicted by modeling methods and suggest that the model-based approach is essential to better understand natural acidophilic microbial communities.	2016	10	10.1038/ismej.2015.201
Cao, HC; Chen, RR; Wang, LB; Jiang, LL; Yang, F; Zheng, SX; Wang, GJ; Lin, XG	Soil pH, total phosphorus, climate and distance are the major factors influencing microbial activity at a regional spatial scale	SCIENTIFIC REPORTS	Considering the extensive functional redundancy in microbial communities and great difficulty in elucidating it based on taxonomic structure, studies on the biogeography of soil microbial activity at large spatial scale are as important as microbial community structure. Eighty-four soil samples were collected across a region from south to north China (about 1,000 km) to address the questions if microbial activity displays biogeographic patterns and what are driving forces. These samples represented different soil types, land use and climate. Redundancy analysis and nonmetric multidimensional scaling clearly revealed that soil microbial activities showed distinct differentiation at different sites over a regional spatial scale, which were strongly affected by soil pH, total P, rainfall, temperature, soil type and location. In addition, microbial community structure was greatly influenced by rainfall, location, temperature, soil pH and soil type and was correlated with microbial activity to some extent. Our results suggest that microbial activities display a clear geographic pattern that is greatly altered by geographic distance and reflected by climate, soil pH and total P over large spatial scales. There are common (distance, climate, pH and soil type) but differentiated aspects (TP, SOC and N) in the biogeography of soil microbial community structure and activity.	2016	6	10.1038/srep25815
Zhang, BL; Wu, XK; Zhang, GS; Li, SY; Zhang, W; Chen, XM; Sun, LK; Zhang, BG; Liu, GX; Chen, T	The diversity and biogeography of the communities of Actinobacteria in the forelands of glaciers at a continental scale	ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH LETTERS	Glacier forelands, where the initially exposed area is unvegetated with minimal human influence, are an ideal place for research on the distributions and biogeography of microbial communities. Actinobacteria produce many bioactive substances and have important roles in soil development and biogeochemical cycling. However, little is known about the distribution and biogeography of Actinobacteria in glacier forelands. Therefore, we investigated the patterns of diversity and the biogeography of actinobacterial communities of the inhabited forefields of 5 glaciers in China. Of the bacteria, the mean relative abundance of Actinobacteria was 13.1%, and 6 classes were identified in the phylum Actinobacteria. The dominant class was Actinobacteria (57%), which was followed in abundance by Acidimicrobiia (19%) and Thermoleophilia (19%). When combined, the relative abundance of the other three classes, the MB-A2-108, Nitriliruptoria and Rubrobacteria, was only 2.4%. Abiogeographic pattern in the forelands of the 5 glaciers in China was not detected for actinobacterial communities. Compared with 7 other actinobacterial communities found in the forelands of glaciers globally, those in the Southern Hemisphere were significantly different from those in the Northern Hemisphere. Moreover, the communities were significantly different on the separate continents of the Northern Hemisphere. The dissimilarity of the actinobacterial communities increased with geographic distance (r=0.428, p=0.0003). Because of environmental factors, the effect of geography was clear when the distance exceeded a certain continent-level threshold. With the analysis of indicator species, we found that each genus had a geographic characteristic, which could explain why the communities with greater diversity were more strongly affected by biogeography.	2016	11	10.1088/1748-9326/11/5/054012
David, AS; Seabloom, EW; May, G	Plant Host Species and Geographic Distance Affect the Structure of Aboveground Fungal Symbiont Communities, and Environmental Filtering Affects Belowground Communities in a Coastal Dune Ecosystem	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Microbial symbionts inhabit tissues of all plants and animals. Their community composition depends largely on two ecological processes: (1) filtering by abiotic conditions and host species determining the environments that symbionts are able to colonize and (2) dispersal-limitation determining the pool of symbionts available to colonize a given host and community spatial structure. In plants, the above- and belowground tissues represent such distinct habitats for symbionts that we expect different effects of filtering and spatial structuring on their symbiont communities. In this study, we characterized above- and belowground communities of fungal endophytes-fungi living asymptomatically within plants-to understand the contributions of filtering and spatial structure to endophyte community composition. We used a culture-based approach to characterize endophytes growing in leaves and roots of three species of coastal beachgrasses in dunes of the USA Pacific Northwest. For leaves, endophyte isolation frequency and OTU richness depended primarily on plant host species. In comparison, for roots, both isolation frequency and OTU richness increased from the nutrient-poor front of the dune to the higher-nutrient backdune. Endophyte community composition in leaves exhibited a distance-decay relationship across the region. In a laboratory assay, faster growth rates and lower spore production were more often associated with leaf- than root-inhabiting endophytes. Overall, our results reveal a greater importance of biotic filtering by host species and dispersal-limitation over regional geographic distances for aboveground leaf endophyte communities and stronger effects of abiotic environmental filtering and locally patchy distributions for belowground root endophyte communities.	2016	71	10.1007/s00248-015-0712-6
Stone, BWG; Jackson, CR	Biogeographic Patterns Between Bacterial Phyllosphere Communities of the Southern Magnolia (Magnolia grandiflora) in a Small Forest	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	The phyllosphere presents a unique system of discrete and easily replicable surfaces colonized primarily by bacteria. However, the biogeography of bacteria in the phyllosphere is little understood, especially at small to intermediate scales. Bacterial communities on the leaves of 91 southern magnolia (Magnolia grandiflora) trees 1-452 m apart in a small forest plot were analyzed and fragments of the 16S ribosomal RNA (rRNA) gene sequenced using the Illumina platform. Assemblages were dominated by members of the Alphaproteobacteria, Bacteroidetes, and Acidobacteria. Patterns in community composition were measured by both relative abundance (theta) and presence-absence (Jaccard) dissimilarity metrics. Distance-based Morans eigenvector map analyses of the distance-decay relationship found a significant, positive relationship between each dissimilarity metric and significant eigenfunctions derived from geographic distance between trees, indicating trees that were closer together had more similar bacterial phyllosphere communities. Indirect gradient analyses revealed that several environmental parameters (canopy cover, tree elevation, and the slope and aspect of the ground beneath trees) were significantly related to multivariate ordination scores based on relative bacterial sequence abundances; however, these relationships were not significant when looking at the incidence of bacterial taxa. This suggests that bacterial growth and abundance in the phyllosphere is shaped by different assembly mechanisms than bacterial presence or absence. More broadly, this study demonstrates that the distance-decay relationship applies to phyllosphere communities at local scales, and that environmental parameters as well as neutral forces may both influence spatial patterns in the phyllosphere.	2016	71	10.1007/s00248-016-0738-4
Yang, J; Ma, L; Jiang, HC; Wu, G; Dong, HL	Salinity shapes microbial diversity and community structure in surface sediments of the Qinghai-Tibetan Lakes	SCIENTIFIC REPORTS	Investigating microbial response to environmental variables is of great importance for understanding of microbial acclimatization and evolution in natural environments. However, little is known about how microbial communities responded to environmental factors (e.g. salinity, geographic distance) in lake surface sediments of the Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau (QTP). In this study, microbial diversity and community structure in the surface sediments of nine lakes on the QTP were investigated by using the Illumina Miseq sequencing technique and the resulting microbial data were statistically analyzed in combination with environmental variables. The results showed total microbial community of the studied lakes was significantly correlated (r = 0.631, P < 0.001) with lake salinity instead of geographic distance. This suggests that lake salinity is more important than geographic distance in shaping the microbial diversity and community structure in the studied samples. In addition, the abundant and rare taxa (OTUs with relative abundance higher than 1% and lower than 0.01% within one sample, respectively) were significantly (P < 0.05) correlated (r = 0.427 and 0.783, respectively) with salinity, suggesting rare taxa might be more sensitive to salinity than their abundant counterparts, thus cautions should be taken in future when evaluating microbial response (abundant vs. rare sub-communities) to environmental conditions.	2016	6	10.1038/srep25078
Robador, A; Muller, AL; Sawicka, JE; Berry, D; Hubert, CRJ; Loy, A; Jorgensen, BB; Bruchert, V	Activity and community structures of sulfate-reducing microorganisms in polar, temperate and tropical marine sediments	ISME JOURNAL	Temperature has a fundamental impact on the metabolic rates of microorganisms and strongly influences microbial ecology and biogeochemical cycling in the environment. In this study, we examined the catabolic temperature response of natural communities of sulfate-reducing microorganisms (SRM) in polar, temperate and tropical marine sediments. In short-term sediment incubation experiments with S-35-sulfate, we demonstrated how the cardinal temperatures for sulfate reduction correlate with mean annual sediment temperatures, indicating specific thermal adaptations of the dominant SRM in each of the investigated ecosystems. The community structure of putative SRM in the sediments, as revealed by pyrosequencing of bacterial 16S rRNA gene amplicons and phylogenetic assignment to known SRM taxa, consistently correlated with in situ temperatures, but not with sediment organic carbon concentrations or C:N ratios of organic matter. Additionally, several species-level SRM phylotypes of the class Deltaproteobacteria tended to co-occur at sites with similar mean annual temperatures, regardless of geographic distance. The observed temperature adaptations of SRM imply that environmental temperature is a major controlling variable for physiological selection and ecological and evolutionary differentiation of microbial communities.	2016	10	10.1038/ismej.2015.157
Pernice, MC; Giner, CR; Logares, R; Perera-Bel, J; Acinas, SG; Duarte, CM; Gasol, JM; Massana, R	Large variability of bathypelagic microbial eukaryotic communities across the worlds oceans	ISME JOURNAL	In this work, we study the diversity of bathypelagic microbial eukaryotes (0.8-20 mu m) in the global ocean. Seawater samples from 3000 to 4000 m depth from 27 stations in the Atlantic, Pacific and Indian Oceans were analyzed by pyrosequencing the V4 region of the 18S ribosomal DNA. The relative abundance of the most abundant operational taxonomic units agreed with the results of a parallel metagenomic analysis, suggesting limited PCR biases in the tag approach. Although rarefaction curves for single stations were seldom saturated, the global analysis of all sequences together suggested an adequate recovery of bathypelagic diversity. Community composition presented a large variability among samples, which was poorly explained by linear geographic distance. In fact, the similarity between communities was better explained by water mass composition (26% of the variability) and the ratio in cell abundance between prokaryotes and microbial eukaryotes (21%). Deep diversity appeared dominated by four taxonomic groups (Collodaria, Chrysophytes, Basidiomycota and MALV-II) appearing in different proportions in each sample. Novel diversity amounted to 1% of the pyrotags and was lower than expected. Our study represents an essential step in the investigation of bathypelagic microbial eukaryotes, indicating dominating taxonomic groups and suggesting idiosyncratic assemblages in distinct oceanic regions.	2016	10	10.1038/ismej.2015.170
Liu, JJ; Sui, YY; Yu, ZH; Yao, Q; Shi, Y; Chu, HY; Jin, J; Liu, XB; Wang, GH	Diversity and distribution patterns of acidobacterial communities in the black soil zone of northeast China	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	Although Acidobacteria are ubiquitous and are commonly one of the most abundant bacterial phyla in soils, knowledge regarding their diversity and distribution is still limited. Our previous studies discovered the biogeographical distribution patterns of bacterial and fungal communities in the black soil zone of northeast China. In this study, we further investigated the diversity and composition of acidobacterial communities generated with the Acidobacteria-specific primers ACIDO/342r in the same soil samples using quantitative PCR and Illumina MiSeq sequencing methods. A total of 412,203 acidobacterial 16S rRNA gene sequences were obtained from 26 soil samples that were collected from arable lands across the black soil zone. These sequences belonged to 21 subgroups, and GP1, GP3, GP4 and GP6 were the most abundant subgroups, accounting for 22.63%, 17.17%, 23.82% and 27.47% of acidobacterial sequences across all soils, respectively. The abundance of Acidobacteria displayed a more significant positive correlation with soil carbon content than with soil pH, and the relative abundance of certain subgroups was significantly positive or negative related with soil pH. The OTU richness, phylogenetic diversity and community composition of Acidobacteria were significantly correlated with soil pH. A variance partitioning analysis showed that the soil pH contributed 25% of the community variation, while the geographic distance explained only approximately 5% of the variation. These results indicated that soil pH was a main factor structuring acidobacterial communities in the black soil zone of northeast China. Our results also suggested that the Acidobacteria-specific primers could be better used for studying the distribution of acidobacterial communities in soils. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2016	95	10.1016/j.soilbio.2015.12.021
Andam, CP; Doroghazi, JR; Campbell, AN; Kelly, PJ; Choudoir, MJ; Buckley, DH	A Latitudinal Diversity Gradient in Terrestrial Bacteria of the Genus Streptomyces	MBIO	We show that Streptomyces biogeography in soils across North America is influenced by the regional diversification of microorganisms due to dispersal limitation and genetic drift. Streptomyces spp. form desiccation-resistant spores, which can be dispersed on the wind, allowing for a strong test of whether dispersal limitation governs patterns of terrestrial microbial diversity. We employed an approach that has high sensitivity for determining the effects of genetic drift. Specifically, we examined the genetic diversity and phylogeography of physiologically similar Streptomyces strains isolated from geographically distributed yet ecologically similar habitats. We found that Streptomyces beta diversity scales with geographic distance and both beta diversity and phylogenetic diversity manifest in a latitudinal diversity gradient. This pattern of Streptomyces biogeography resembles patterns seen for diverse species of plants and animals, and we therefore evaluated these data in the context of ecological and evolutionary hypotheses proposed to explain latitudinal diversity gradients. The data are consistent with the hypothesis that niche conservatism limits dispersal, and historical patterns of glaciation have limited the time for speciation in higher-latitude sites. Most notably, higher-latitude sites have lower phylogenetic diversity, higher phylogenetic clustering, and evidence of range expansion from lower latitudes. In addition, patterns of beta diversity partition with respect to the glacial history of sites. Hence, the data support the hypothesis that extant patterns of Streptomyces biogeography have been driven by historical patterns of glaciation and are the result of demographic range expansion, dispersal limitation, and regional diversification due to drift. IMPORTANCE Biogeographic patterns provide insight into the evolutionary and ecological processes that govern biodiversity. However, the evolutionary and ecological processes that govern terrestrial microbial diversity remain poorly characterized. We evaluated the biogeography of the genus Streptomyces to show that the diversity of terrestrial bacteria is governed by many of the same processes that govern the diversity of many plant and animal species. While bacteria of the genus Streptomyces are a preeminent source of antibiotics, their evolutionary history, biogeography, and biodiversity remain poorly characterized. The observations we describe provide insight into the drivers of Streptomyces biodiversity and the processes that underlie microbial diversification in terrestrial habitats.	2016	7	10.1128/mBio.02200-15
Gaisin, VA; Grouzdev, DS; Namsaraev, ZB; Sukhacheva, MV; Gorlenko, VM; Kuznetsov, BB	Biogeography of thermophilic phototrophic bacteria belonging to Roseiflexus genus	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Isolated environments such as hot springs are particularly interesting for studying the microbial biogeography. These environments create an island effect leading to genetic divergence. We studied the phylogeographic pattern of thermophilic anoxygenic phototrophic bacteria, belonging to the Roseiflexus genus. The main characteristic of the observed pattern was geographic and geochronologic fidelity to the hot springs within Circum-Pacific and Alpine-Himalayan-Indonesian orogenic belts. Mantel test revealed a correlation between genetic divergence and geographic distance among the phylotypes. Cluster analysis revealed a regional differentiation of the global phylogenetic pattern. The phylogeographic pattern is in correlation with geochronologic events during the break up of Pangaea that led to the modern configuration of continents. To our knowledge this is the first geochronological scenario of intercontinental prokaryotic taxon divergence. The existence of the modern phylogeographic pattern contradicts with the existence of the ancient evolutionary history of the Roseiflexus group proposed on the basis of its deep-branching phylogenetic position. These facts indicate that evolutionary rates in Roseiflexus varied over a wide range.	2016	92	10.1093/femsec/fiw012
Deng, Y; He, ZL; Xiong, JB; Yu, H; Xu, MY; Hobbie, SE; Reich, PB; Schadt, CW; Kent, A; Pendall, E; Wallenstein, M; Zhou, JZ	Elevated carbon dioxide accelerates the spatial turnover of soil microbial communities	GLOBAL CHANGE BIOLOGY	Although elevated CO2 (eCO(2)) significantly affects the -diversity, composition, function, interaction and dynamics of soil microbial communities at the local scale, little is known about eCO(2) impacts on the geographic distribution of micro-organisms regionally or globally. Here, we examined the -diversity of 110 soil microbial communities across six free air CO2 enrichment (FACE) experimental sites using a high-throughput functional gene array. The -diversity of soil microbial communities was significantly (P<0.05) correlated with geographic distance under both CO2 conditions, but declined significantly (P<0.05) faster at eCO(2) with a slope of -0.0250 than at ambient CO2 (aCO(2)) with a slope of -0.0231 although it varied within each individual site, indicating that the spatial turnover rate of soil microbial communities was accelerated under eCO(2) at a larger geographic scale (e.g. regionally). Both distance and soil properties significantly (P<0.05) contributed to the observed microbial -diversity. This study provides new hypotheses for further understanding their assembly mechanisms that may be especially important as global CO2 continues to increase.	2016	22	10.1111/gcb.13098
Tisthammer, KH; Cobian, GM; Amend, AS	Global biogeography of marine fungi is shaped by the environment	FUNGAL ECOLOGY	Fungi are essential components of marine ecosystems, yet very little is known about their global distribution and diversity in the marine environment. In this study, we analyzed marine fungal community structure at a global scale using the International Census of Marine Microbes dataset. Marine fungal communities sampled from both the water column and sediments were compared. Based on the sequences of the nuclear ribosomal small subunit V9 region, 2200 operational taxonomic units (OTUs) were identified at 97% similarity. There was a significant distinction between the pelagic and benthic communities, with 15.4% OTUs shared between the two realms. Environmental factors, particularly sample depth, oxygen, and nitrate, strongly correlated with the fungal community composition and explained more variance than did geographic distance. This study represents the first global-scale analysis of marine fungal community structure, and highlights potential opportunities for research in marine fungal ecology and biogeography. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd and The British Mycological Society. All rights reserved.	2016	19	10.1016/j.funeco.2015.09.003
Angermeyer, A; Crosby, SC; Huber, JA	Decoupled distance-decay patterns between dsrA and 16S rRNA genes among salt marsh sulfate-reducing bacteria	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	In many habitats, microorganisms exhibit significant distance-decay patterns as determined by analysis of the 16S rRNA gene and various other genetic elements. However, there have been few studies that examine how the similarities of both taxonomic and functional genes co-vary over geographic distance within a group of ecologically related microbes. Here, we determined the biogeographic patterns of the functional dissimilatory sulfite reductase gene (dsrA) and the 16S rRNA gene in sulfate-reducing bacterial communities of US East Coast salt marsh sediments. Distance-decay, ordination and statistical analyses revealed that the distribution of 16S rRNA genes is strongly influenced by geographic distance and environmental factors, whereas the dsrA gene is not. Together, our results indicate that 16S rRNA genes are likely dispersal limited and under environmental selection, whereas dsrA genes appear randomly distributed and not selected for by any expected environmental variables. Selection, drift, dispersal and mutation are all factors that may help explain the decoupled biogeographic patterns for the two genes. These data suggest that both the taxonomic and functional elements of microbial communities should be considered in future studies of microbial biogeography to aid in our understanding of the diversity, distribution and function of microorganisms in the environment.	2016	18	10.1111/1462-2920.12821
Singer, E; Chong, LS; Heidelberg, JF; Edwards, KJ	Similar Microbial Communities Found on Two Distant Seafloor Basalts	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	The oceanic crust forms two thirds of the Earths surface and hosts a large phylogenetic and functional diversity of microorganisms. While advances have been made in the sedimentary realm, our understanding of the igneous rock portion as a microbial habitat has remained limited. We present the first comparative metagenomic microbial community analysis from ocean floor basalt environments at the Loihi Seamount, Hawaii, and the East Pacific Rise (ERR; 9 degrees N). Phylogenetic analysis indicates the presence of a total of 43 bacterial and archaeal mono-phyletic groups, dominated by Alpha- and Gammaproteobacteria, as well as Thaumarchaeota. Functional gene analysis suggests that these Thaumarchaeota play an important role in ammonium oxidation on seafloor basalts. In addition to ammonium oxidation, the seafloor basalt habitat reveals a wide spectrum of other metabolic potentials, including CO2 fixation, denitrification, dissimilatory sulfate reduction, and sulfur oxidation. Basalt communities from LOihi and the EPR show considerable metabolic and phylogenetic overlap down to the genus level despite geographic distance and slightly different seafloor basalt mineralogy.	2015	6	10.3389/fmicb.2015.01409
Sassenhagen, I; Sefbom, J; Sall, T; Godhe, A; Rengefors, K	Freshwater protists do not go with the flow: population structure in Gonyostomum semen independent of connectivity among lakes	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Many recent studies have found genetically differentiated populations in microorganisms despite potentially high dispersal. We designed a study to specifically examine the importance of physical dispersal barriers, i.e. geographic distance and lack of hydrological connectivity, in restricting gene flow and enhancing divergence in limnic microorganisms. We focused on the nuisance microalga Gonyostomum semen, which has recently expanded in Northern Europe and differentiated into genetically distinct populations. G. semen was sampled from six lakes distributed in two adjacent watersheds, which thereby comprised, both connected and non-connected lakes. The individual isolates were genotyped by amplified fragment length polymorphism. Several lake populations were differentiated from each other, but connectivity within watersheds could not explain the observed population genetic pattern. However, isolation by distance was moderate and might limit the gene flow among distant populations. In addition, we found low, but significant linkage disequilibrium, which indicates regular sexual recombination in this species, despite its high degree of asexual reproduction. Therefore, we conclude that the genetic properties of microalgae with occasional sexual reproduction essentially mirror regularly recombining species. Furthermore, the data indicated bottlenecks supporting the hypothesized recent range expansion of this species.	2015	17	10.1111/1462-2920.12987
Wang, XB; Van Nostrand, JD; Deng, Y; Lu, XT; Wang, C; Zhou, JZ; Han, XG	Scale-dependent effects of climate and geographic distance on bacterial diversity patterns across northern Chinas grasslands	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Patterns of variation in plant and animal diversity along precipitation gradients have been extensively studied, but much less is known about how and to what extent precipitation affects the biogeographic distribution of microbial diversity in arid areas across large spatial scales. Here we collected soils from 54 sites along a 3700 km transect covering a wide range of grassland ecosystems with distinct aridity gradients. We quantified the bacterial community diversity and the effects of climate, edaphic parameter and geographic distance on the bacterial community structure using high-throughput 16S rRNA gene sequencing. Of the 35 phyla detected, 6 were dominant: Actinobacteria, Acidobacteria, Alphaproteobacteria, Deltaproteobacteria, Bacteroidetes and Planctomycetes. Aridity was a major factor influencing bacterial diversity, community composition and taxon abundance. Although the pattern of bacterial species richness is markedly different from that of plant species richness, most soil bacteria were endemic to particular bioregions like macro-organisms. Community similarity significantly declined with environmental distance and geographic distance (r = -0.579 and -0.773, respectively). Geographic distance (historical contingencies) contributed more to bacterial community variation (36.02%) than combined environmental factors (24.06%). Overall, our results showed that geographic distance and climatic factors concurrently govern bacterial biogeographic patterns in arid and semi-arid grassland.	2015	91	10.1093/femsec/fiv133
Van Cauwenberghe, J; Michiels, J; Honnay, O	Effects of local environmental variables and geographical location on the genetic diversity and composition of Rhizobium leguminosarum nodulating Vicia cracca populations	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	Different legume populations are known to accommodate different genotypes of Rhizobium leguminosarum. However, in contrast to interspecific diversity and composition, very little is known regarding which environmental factors drive the genetic diversity and genetic composition of a single Rhizobium species. Based on chromosomal and plasmid genes, we quantified the genetic diversity and compositional differences of R. leguminosarum biovar viciae genotypes associated with twenty-four different Vicia cracca populations across a wide environmental and geographical range. Long-term soil nitrogen availability had a positive effect on chromosomal and plasmid diversity, whereas salinity had a negative effect on chromosomal diversity. Soil pH and geographic distance were the main factors driving compositional differences among populations. In contrast to differences in chromosomal composition, differences in the symbiotic plasmid composition were primarily related to geographic distance or unmeasured related environmental factors (e.g. host plant genetic differentiation). We propose different hypotheses to explain how long-term soil nitrogen availability affects rhizobial genetic diversity. Furthermore, our findings demonstrate that ecological processes that are known to operate at the interspecific level do not necessarily result in the same patterns at the intraspecific level. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2015	90	10.1016/j.soilbio.2015.08.001
Gong, J; Shi, F; Ma, B; Dong, J; Pachiadaki, M; Zhang, XL; Edgcomb, VP	Depth shapes alpha- and beta-diversities of microbial eukaryotes in surficial sediments of coastal ecosystems	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Little is known about the relative influence of historic processes and environmental gradients on shaping the diversity of single-celled eukaryotes in marine benthos. By combining pyrosequencing of 18S ribosomal RNA genes with data on multiple environmental factors, we investigated the diversity of microeukaryotes in surficial sediments of three basins of the Yellow Sea Large Marine Ecosystem. A considerable proportion (about 20%) of reads was affiliated with known parasitoid protists. Dinophyta and Ciliophora appeared dominant in terms of relative proportion of reads and operational taxonomic unit (OTU) richness. Overall, OTU richness of benthic microeukaryotes decreased with increasing water depth and decreasing pH. While community composition was significantly different among basins, partial Mantel tests indicated a depth-decay pattern of community similarity, whereby water depth, rather than geographic distance or environment, shaped -diversity of benthic microeukaryotes (including both the abundant and the rare biosphere) on a regional scale. Similar hydrographic and mineralogical factors contributed to the biogeography of both the abundant and the rare OTUs. The trace metal vanadium had a significant effect on the biogeography of the rare biosphere. Our study sheds new light on the composition, diversity patterns and underlying mechanisms of single-celled eukaryote distribution in surficial sediments of coastal oceans.	2015	17	10.1111/1462-2920.12763
Hu, HW; Zhang, LM; Yuan, CL; Zheng, Y; Wang, JT; Chen, DL; He, JZ	The large-scale distribution of ammonia oxidizers in paddy soils is driven by soil pH, geographic distance, and climatic factors	FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY	Paddy soils distribute widely from temperate to tropical regions, and are characterized by intensive nitrogen fertilization practices in China. Mounting evidence has confirmed the functional importance of ammonia-oxidizing archaea (AOA) and bacteria (AOB) in soil nitrification, but little is known about their biogeographic distribution patterns in paddy ecosystems. Here, we used barcoded pyrosequencing to characterize the effects of climatic, geochemical and spatial factors on the distribution of ammonia oxidizers from 11 representative rice-growing regions (75-1945 km apart) of China. Potential nitrification rates varied greatly by more than three orders of magnitude, and were significantly correlated with the abundances of AOA and AOB. The community composition of ammonia oxidizer was affected by multiple factors, but changes in relative abundances of the major lineages could be best predicted by soil pH. The alpha diversity of AOA and AOB displayed contrasting trends over the gradients of latitude and atmospheric temperature, indicating a possible niche separation between AOA and AOB along the latitude. The Bray-Curtis dissimilarities in ammonia-oxidizing community structure significantly increased with increasing geographical distance, indicating that more geographically distant paddy fields tend to harbor more dissimilar ammonia oxidizers. Variation partitioning analysis revealed that spatial, geochemical and climatic factors could jointly explain majority of the data variation, and were important drivers defining the ecological niches of AOA and AOB. Our findings suggest that both AOA and AOB are of functional importance in paddy soil nitrification, and ammonia oxidizers in paddy ecosystems exhibit large-scale biogeographic patterns shaped by soil pH, geographic distance, and climatic factors.	2015	6	10.3389/fmicb.2015.00938
Junker, RR; Keller, A	Microhabitat heterogeneity across leaves and flower organs promotes bacterial diversity	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Eukaryote-associated microbiomes interact with their hosts in multiple manners, thereby affecting the hosts phenotype, physical condition and behaviour. In plants, bacteria have numerous functions, with variable net effects, both in natural and agricultural systems. However, information about the composition and diversity of the bacterial communities associated with different aboveground plant organs, particularly flowers, is lacking. In addition, the relative effects of microhabitat and environmental conditions on community establishment require further attention. Here, using culture-independent methods, we determine that leaves and three floral microhabitats (nectar, stamina and styles) of Metrosideros polymorpha (Myrtaceae), a tree endemic to Hawaii, host unique indicator communities composed of relatively abundant bacterial taxa. These indicator communities are accompanied by a large number of ubiquitous or rare bacteria with lower abundances. In our study system, the strong effect of microhabitat filtering on plant-associated community composition and bacterial richness and diversity strongly exceeds the influence of environmental effects such as precipitation, altitude, substrate age and geographic distance. Thus, the bacterial richness of aboveground plant organs is strongly underestimated when only one microhabitat, e.g. leaves, is considered. Our study represents a first step towards a comprehensive characterization of the distribution, composition and underlying factors, of plant bacterial communities, with implications for future basic and applied research on plant health, pollination and reproduction.	2015	91	10.1093/femsec/fiv097
Stoof-Leichsenring, KR; Herzschuh, U; Pestryakova, LA; Klemm, J; Epp, LS; Tiedemann, R	Genetic data from algae sedimentary DNA reflect the influence of environment over geography	SCIENTIFIC REPORTS	Genetic investigations on eukaryotic plankton confirmed the existence of modern biogeographic patterns, but analyses of palaeoecological data exploring the temporal variability of these patterns have rarely been presented. Ancient sedimentary DNA proved suitable for investigations of past assemblage turnover in the course of environmental change, but genetic relatedness of the identified lineages has not yet been undertaken. Here, we investigate the relatedness of diatom lineages in Siberian lakes along environmental gradients (i.e. across treeline transects), over geographic distance and through time (i.e. the last 7000 years) using modern and ancient sedimentary DNA. Our results indicate that closely-related Staurosira lineages occur in similar environments and less-related lineages in dissimilar environments, in our case different vegetation and co-varying climatic and limnic variables across treeline transects. Thus our study reveals that environmental conditions rather than geographic distance is reflected by diatom-relatedness patterns in space and time. We tentatively speculate that the detected relatedness pattern in Staurosira across the treeline could be a result of adaptation to diverse environmental conditions across the arctic boreal treeline, however, a geographically-driven divergence and subsequent repopulation of ecologically different habitats might also be a potential explanation for the observed pattern.	2015	5	10.1038/srep12924
Liu, JW; Liu, XS; Wang, M; Qiao, YL; Zheng, YF; Zhang, XH	Bacterial and Archaeal Communities in Sediments of the North Chinese Marginal Seas	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Microbial communities of the Chinese marginal seas have rarely been reported. Here, bacterial and archaeal community structures and abundance in the surface sediment of four sea areas including the Bohai Sea (BS), North Yellow Sea (NYS), South Yellow Sea (SYS), and the north East China Sea (NECS) were surveyed by 16S ribosomal RNA (rRNA) gene pyrosequencing and quantitative PCR. The results showed that microbial communities of the four geographic areas were distinct from each other at the operational taxonomic unit (OTU) level, whereas the microbial communities of the BS, NYS, and SYS were more similar to each other than to the NECS at higher taxonomic levels. Across all samples, Bacteria were numerically dominant relative to Archaea, and among them, Gammaproteobacteria and Euryarchaeota were predominant in the BS, NYS, and SYS, while Deltaproteobacteria and Thaumarchaeota were prevalent in the NECS. The most abundant bacterial genera were putative sulfur oxidizer and sulfate reducer, suggesting that sulfur cycle processes might prevail in these areas, and the high abundance of dsrB (10(7)-10(8) copies g(-1)) in all sites verified the dominance of sulfate reducer in the north Chinese marginal seas. The differences in sediment sources among the sampling areas were potential explanations for the observed microbial community variations. Furthermore, temperature and dissolved oxygen of bottom water were significant environmental factors in determining both bacterial and archaeal communities, whereas chlorophyll a in sediment was significant only in structuring archaeal community. This study presented an outline of benthic microbial communities and provided insights into understanding the biogeochemical cycles in sediments of the north Chinese marginal seas.	2015	70	10.1007/s00248-014-0553-8
Liu, JJ; Sui, YY; Yu, ZH; Shi, Y; Chu, HY; Jin, J; Liu, XB; Wang, GH	Soil carbon content drives the biogeographical distribution of fungal communities in the black soil zone of northeast China	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	Black soils (Mollisols) are one of the most important soil resources for maintaining food security in China, and they are mainly distributed in northeast China. A previous comprehensive study revealed the biogeographical distribution patterns of bacterial communities in the black soil zone. In this study, we used the same soil samples and analyzed the 454 pyrosequencing data for the nuclear ribosomal internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region to examine the fungal communities in these black soils. A total of 220,812 fungal ITS sequences were obtained from 26 soil samples that were collected across the black soil zone. These sequences were classified into at least 5 phyla, 20 classes, greater than 70 orders and over 350 genera, suggesting a high fungal diversity across the black soils. The diversity of fungal communities and distribution of several abundant fungal taxa were significantly related to the soil carbon content. Non-metric multidimensional scaling and canonical correspondence analysis plots indicated that the fungal community composition was most strongly affected by the soil carbon content followed by soil pH. This finding differs from the bacterial community results, which indicated that soil pH was the most important edaphic factor in determining the bacterial community composition of these black soils. A variance partitioning analysis indicated that the geographic distance contributed 20% of the fungal community variation and soil environmental factors that were characterized explained approximately 35%. A pairwise analysis revealed that the diversity of the fungal community was relatively higher at lower latitudes, which is similar to the findings for the bacterial communities in the same region and suggests that a latitudinal gradient of microbial community diversity might occur in the black soil zone. By incorporating our previous findings on the bacterial communities, we can conclude that contemporary factors of soil characteristics are more important than historical factor of geographic distance in shaping the microbial community in the black soil zone of northeast China. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2015	83	10.1016/j.soilbio.2015.01.009
Morrissey, BJ; Helgason, T; Poppinga, L; Funfhaus, A; Genersch, E; Budge, GE	Biogeography of Paenibacillus larvae, the causative agent of American foulbrood, using a new multilocus sequence typing scheme	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	American foulbrood is the most destructive brood disease of honeybees (Apis mellifera) globally. The absence of a repeatable, universal typing scheme for the causative bacterium Paenibacillus larvae has restricted our understanding of disease epidemiology. We have created the first multilocus sequence typing scheme (MLST) for P.larvae, which largely confirms the previous enterobacterial repetitive intergenic consensus (ERIC)-polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based typing schemes divisions while providing added resolution and improved repeatability. We have used the new scheme to determine the distribution and biogeography of 294 samples of P.larvae from across six continents. We found that of the two most epidemiologically important ERIC types, ERIC I was more diverse than ERIC II. Analysis of the fixation index (F-ST) by distance suggested a significant relationship between genetic and geographic distance, suggesting that population structure exists in populations of P.larvae. Interestingly, this effect was only observed within the native range of the host and was absent in areas where international trade has moved honeybees and their disease. Correspondence analysis demonstrated similar sequence type (ST) distributions between native and non-native countries and that ERIC I and II STs mainly have differing distributions. The new typing scheme facilitates epidemiological study of this costly disease of a key pollinator.	2015	17	10.1111/1462-2920.12625
Rysanek, D; Hrckova, K; Skaloud, P	Global ubiquity and local endemism of free-living terrestrial protists: phylogeographic assessment of the streptophyte alga Klebsormidium	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Despite considerable research attention during the last 10 years, the distribution and biogeography of protists remain as highly controversial issues. The presumably huge population sizes and unlimited dispersal capabilities should result in protist ubiquity. However, recent molecular investigations suggest that protist communities exhibit strong biogeographic patterns. Here, we examined the biogeographic pattern of a very common green algal genus Klebsormidium. We evaluated the geographic distribution of rbcL genotypes for 190 isolates sampled in six sampling regions located in Europe, North America and Asia. Measures of correlation between genetic and geographic distance matrices revealed a differential distribution pattern on two geographic levels. Globally, the populations were genetically homogeneous; locally, the genotypes were patchily distributed. We hypothesized that a local fine-scale structuring of genotypes may be caused by various ecological factors, in particular, by the habitat differentiation of particular genotypes. Our investigations also identified a large number of new, previously unrecognized lineages. A total of 44 genotypes were identified and more than 66% of these were reported for the first time.	2015	17	10.1111/1462-2920.12501
Hahn, MW; Koll, U; Jezberova, J; Camacho, A	Global phylogeography of pelagic Polynucleobacter bacteria: Restricted geographic distribution of subgroups, isolation by distance and influence of climate	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	The free-living planktonic freshwater bacterium Polynucleobacter necessarius subspecies asymbioticus (>99% 16S rRNA similarity) represents a taxon with a cosmopolitan distribution and apparently ubiquitous occurrence in lentic freshwater habitats. We tested for intra-taxon biogeographic patterns by combining cultivation-independent and cultivation methods. A culture collection of 204 strains isolated from globally distributed freshwater habitats (Arctic to Antarctica) was investigated for phylogeographic patterns based on sequences of two markers, the 16S-23S internal transcribed spacers and the glutamine synthetase gene (glnA). Genetic distance between isolates showed significant geographic distance-decay patterns for both markers, suggesting that an isolation-by-distance mechanism influences the global phylogeography. Furthermore, a couple of subgroups showed restricted geographic distributions. Strains of one subgroup were exclusively obtained from tropical sites on four continents (pantropical subgroup). Cultivation-independent methods were used to confirm the restricted geographic distributions of two subgroups. The pantropical taxon could be detected in 63% of investigated tropical habitats but not in any of 121 European freshwater samples. Physiological tests indicated that almost all strains of the pantropical subgroup failed to grow at temperatures of 4 degrees C, while strains affiliated with other subgroups showed good growth at this temperature. This suggests that thermal adaptation is involved in phylogeographic structuring of the global Polynucleobacter population.	2015	17	10.1111/1462-2920.12532
Charlop-Powers, Z; Owen, JG; Reddy, BVB; Ternei, M; Guimaraes, DO; de Frias, UA; Pupo, MT; Seepe, P; Feng, ZY; Brady, SF	Global Biogeographic Sampling of Bacterial Secondary Metabolism	ELIFE	Recent bacterial (meta) genome sequencing efforts suggest the existence of an enormous untapped reservoir of natural-product-encoding biosynthetic gene clusters in the environment. Here we use the pyrosequencing of PCR amplicons derived from both nonribosomal peptide adenylation domains and polyketide ketosynthase domains to compare biosynthetic diversity in soil microbiomes from around the globe. We see large differences in domain populations from all except the most proximal and biome-similar samples, suggesting that most microbiomes will encode largely distinct collections of bacterial secondary metabolites. Our data indicate a correlation between two factors, geographic distance and biome-type, and the biosynthetic diversity found in soil environments. By assigning reads to known gene clusters we identify hotspots of biomedically relevant biosynthetic diversity. These observations not only provide new insights into the natural world, they also provide a road map for guiding future natural products discovery efforts.	2015	4	10.7554/eLife.05048
Espinosa-Asuar, L; Escalante, AE; Gasca-Pineda, J; Blaz, J; Pena, L; Eguiarte, LE; Souza, V	Aquatic bacterial assemblage structure in Pozas Azules, Cuatro Cienegas Basin, Mexico: Deterministic vs. stochastic processes	INTERNATIONAL MICROBIOLOGY	The aim of this study was to determine the contributions of stochastic vs. deterministic processes in the distribution of microbial diversity in four ponds (Pozas Azules) within a temporally stable aquatic system in the Cuatro Cienegas Basin, State of Coahuila, Mexico. A sampling strategy for sites that were geographically delimited and had low environmental variation was applied to avoid obscuring distance effects. Aquatic bacterial diversity was characterized following a culture-independent approach (16S sequencing of clone libraries). The results showed a correlation between bacterial beta diversity (1-Sorensen) and geographic distance (distance decay of similarity), which indicated the influence of stochastic processes related to dispersion in the assembly of the ponds bacterial communities. Our findings are the first to show the influence of dispersal limitation in the prokaryotic diversity distribution of Cuatro Cienegas Basin.	2015	18	10.2436/20.1501.01.240
Balzano, S; Abs, E; Leterme, SC	Protist diversity along a salinity gradient in a coastal lagoon	AQUATIC MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	The importance of microbial eukaryotes to aquatic systems has been widely acknowledged in the last decade, and the application of high-throughput sequencing techniques has revealed an astonishing diversity and high proportions of novel taxa. Most studies have focused either on marine or freshwater ecosystems; thus, information on estuarine communities is either incomplete or missing. We assessed the composition of microbial eukaryotes along a South Australian coastal lagoon affected by a broad (7 to 65 PSU) salinity gradient, the Coorong Lagoon. This lagoon extends for over 170 km from the mouth of the River Murray (Murray Mouth) southwards, where the salinity increases up to hypersaline values. We sampled 5 stations during the austral summer and winter and sequenced the amplified V4 region of the 18S rRNA gene using Ion Torrent. Genetic libraries were mostly represented by reads from 5 phyla, with Chlorophyta prevailing in summer, diatoms in winter and Haptophyta in the southernmost sampling sites. In spite of the broad spatial and temporal salinity changes observed, the communities of small eukaryotes clustered in 2 groups reflecting the sample location. Moreover, dissimilarities between samples were unaffected by differences in salinity, but increased with increasing geographic distances. Microbial exchanges from the Coorong Lagoon towards both freshwater and seawater occur via the Murray Mouth and are likely to prevent the formation of communities adapted to local salinity conditions. However, such exchanges likely decrease with increasing distances from the Murray Mouth, resulting in distance-driven eukaryotic communities.	2015	74	10.3354/ame01740
Kivlin, SN; Winston, GC; Goulden, ML; Treseder, KK	Environmental filtering affects soil fungal community composition more than dispersal limitation at regional scales	FUNGAL ECOLOGY	The relative importance of dispersal limitation versus environmental filtering for community assembly has received much attention for macroorganisms. These processes have only recently been examined in microbial communities. Instead, microbial dispersal has mostly been measured as community composition change over space (i.e., distance decay). Here we directly examined fungal composition in airborne wind currents and soil fungal communities across a 40 000 km(2) regional landscape to determine if dispersal limitation or abiotic factors were structuring soil fungal communities. Over this landscape, neither airborne nor soil fungal communities exhibited compositional differences due to geographic distance. Airborne fungal communities shifted temporally while soil fungal communities were correlated with abiotic parameters. These patterns suggest that environmental filtering may have the largest influence on fungal regional community assembly in soils, especially for aerially dispersed fungal taxa. Furthermore, we found evidence that dispersal of fungal spores differs between fungal taxa and can be both a stochastic and deterministic process. The spatial range of soil fungal taxa was correlated with their average regional abundance across all sites, which may imply stochastic dispersal mechanisms. Nevertheless, spore volume was also negatively correlated with spatial range for some species. Smaller volume spores may be adapted to long-range dispersal, or establishment, suggesting that deterministic fungal traits may also influence fungal distributions. Fungal life-history traits may influence their distributions as well. Hypogeous fungal taxa exhibited high local abundance, but small spatial ranges, while epigeous fungal taxa had lower local abundance, but larger spatial ranges. This study is the first, to our knowledge, to directly sample air dispersal and soil fungal communities simultaneously across a regional landscape. We provide some of the first evidence that soil fungal communities are mostly assembled through environmental filtering and experience little dispersal limitation. Elsevier Ltd and The British Mycological Society.	2014	12	10.1016/j.funeco.2014.04.004
Krtinic, B; Francuski, L; Milankov, V	Microhabitat and spatial variation at HK isozyme loci in Culex pipiens: testing isolation by distance and isolation by ecology model	BULLETIN OF INSECTOLOGY	Culex pipiens L. (Diptera Culicidae) is of medical and veterinary importance as vector of various bacterial, filarial and arboviral disease pathogens, and is a major pest in urban areas. Understanding the population structure and gene flow among populations is critical for public health issues such as local dispersion pattern and spread of insecticide resistance. To determine the dispersion pattern of the Cx. pipiens samples across the southern part of the Pannonian Plain of Central Europe (testing Isolation by distance model), and at fine-scale level, between ecologically different larval habitats (testing Isolation by ecology model), we studied hexokinase (HK) genes. Because the polymorphism of HK genes is independent of insecticide use, spatial variation at HK loci provided valuable information on population connectivity of Cx. pipiens. Implementing STRUCTURE statistical analysis, a lack of structuring at individual level of urban and rural samples was observed. Landscape study rejected both ecological and isolation models which implies that different selection regimes of larval habitats and geographic distance do not influence on genotype portioning at HK system. Observed high genetic connectivity among samples throughout urban and rural environments indicated that gene flow is an important factor underlying genetic structure. This study pointed out that control measures restricted to urban areas are unlikely to be effective due to high gene flow between treated and untreated populations. Hence, designing a sustainable vector control strategy for the species with detectable gene flow, such as Cx. pipiens, must remain a regional effort.	2014	67	
Tsiknia, M; Paranychianakis, NV; Varouchakis, EA; Moraetis, D; Nikolaidis, NP	Environmental drivers of soil microbial community distribution at the Koiliaris Critical Zone Observatory	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Data on soil microbial community distribution at large scales are limited despite the important information that could be drawn with regard to their function and the influence of environmental factors on nutrient cycling and ecosystem services. This study investigates the distribution of Archaea, Bacteria and Fungi as well as the dominant bacterial phyla (Acidobacteria, Actinobacteria, Bacteroidetes, Firmicutes), and classes of Proteobacteria (Alpha- and Betaproteobacteria) across the Koiliaris watershed by qPCR and associate them with environmental variables. Predictive maps of microorganisms distribution at watershed scale were generated by co-kriging, using the most significant predictors. Our findings showed that 31-79% of the spatial variation in microbial taxa abundance could be explained by the parameters measured, with total organic carbon and pH being identified as the most important. Moreover, strong correlations were set between microbial groups and their inclusion on variance explanation improved the prediction power of the models. The spatial autocorrelation of microbial groups ranged from 309 to 2.226m, and geographic distance, by itself, could explain a high proportion of their variation. Our findings shed light on the factors shaping microbial communities at a high taxonomic level and provide evidence for ecological coherence and syntrophic interactions at the watershed scale.	2014	90	10.1111/1574-6941.12379
Landesman, WJ; Nelson, DM; Fitzpatrick, MC	Soil properties and tree species drive beta-diversity of soil bacterial communities	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	A challenge in ecology and biogeography is to understand the drivers of the composition and distribution of biological communities. Environmental factors (especially pH) and dispersal limitation are thought to exert the primary controls on the composition of soil bacterial communities. However, quantifying their relative importance remains difficult because of analytical uncertainties. For example, the relationship between bacterial community composition and soil pH, which is often nonlinear, is typically evaluated with a linear test and without accounting for variability in rates of turnover along environmental gradients. Furthermore, potential drivers of variation in soil pH, and therefore bacterial community composition, are not commonly analyzed during microbial biogeographical studies. To address these issues we collected 700 soil samples across multiple spatial scales from beneath four late-successional tree species within 12 forests in the eastern United States. We performed high-throughput sequencing of 16S rDNA amplicons and measured soil properties thought to influence soil bacterial composition. Generalized Dissimilarity Modeling, a non-linear form of matrix regression, indicated that geographic distance and soil properties explained 77.3% of the deviance in turnover in overall bacterial community composition. However, only 2.1% of the explained deviance was attributable to geographic distance, indicating little contribution of dispersal limitation to bacterial beta-diversity across scales of similar to 1.7 m to >1000 km. Although 81.7% of the explained deviance in overall bacterial composition was attributable to soil properties, particularly soil pH, the magnitude and rate of compositional turnover varied among bacterial families across the pH gradient. The beta-diversity of three dominant families (Bradyrhizobiaceae, Hyphomicrobiaceae and Burkholderia) was explained by neither soil properties nor geographic distance. Differences in soil pH between certain tree species likely led to distinct bacterial communities at several sites. Thus, shifts in soil pH, potentially as the result of shifts in tree composition, will likely have important consequences for the composition of soil bacterial communities. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2014	76	10.1016/j.soilbio.2014.05.025
Mueller, RC; Paula, FS; Mirza, BS; Rodrigues, JLM; Nusslein, K; Bohannan, BJM	Links between plant and fungal communities across a deforestation chronosequence in the Amazon rainforest	ISME JOURNAL	Understanding the interactions among microbial communities, plant communities and soil properties following deforestation could provide insights into the long-term effects of land-use change on ecosystem functions, and may help identify approaches that promote the recovery of degraded sites. We combined high-throughput sequencing of fungal rDNA and molecular barcoding of plant roots to estimate fungal and plant community composition in soil sampled across a chronosequence of deforestation. We found significant effects of land-use change on fungal community composition, which was more closely correlated to plant community composition than to changes in soil properties or geographic distance, providing evidence for strong links between above- and below-ground communities in tropical forests.	2014	8	10.1038/ismej.2013.253
Cline, LC; Zak, DR	Dispersal limitation structures fungal community assembly in a long-term glacial chronosequence	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Microbial communities in soil mediate biogeochemical processes; however, understanding forces shaping their composition and function remains a gap in our ecological knowledge. We investigated phylogenetic turnover and functional gene composition of saprotrophic fungi along a 4000-year glacial chronosequence. A direct relationship between -diversity and geographic distance, a proxy for time since deglaciation, indicated that dispersal limitation shapes saprotrophic fungal communities. Further, we infer that dispersal limitation may also influence fungal functional properties as metabolic potential and functional richness increased with site age. Despite attempts to minimize environmental variation, a direct relationship between -diversity and biogeochemical differences across sites indicated that environmental filtering further shapes fungal community composition. However, environmental filtering was overshadowed by the effect of dispersal limitation when tested by multiple regression. Fungal -diversity and composition of functional genes involved in plant litter decay were unrelated, suggesting that functional traits are not phylogenetically conserved across this chronosequence. Our study suggests that dispersal limitation operates in structuring present-day fungal community composition and functional potential. Further, we demonstrate the need to integrate functional and phylogenetic approaches to more accurately portray microbial communities and their functional capacities.	2014	16	10.1111/1462-2920.12281
Reveillaud, J; Maignien, L; Eren, AM; Huber, JA; Apprill, A; Sogin, ML; Vanreusel, A	Host-specificity among abundant and rare taxa in the sponge microbiome	ISME JOURNAL	Microbial communities have a key role in the physiology of the sponge host, and it is therefore essential to understand the stability and specificity of sponge-symbiont associations. Host-specific bacterial associations spanning large geographic distance are widely acknowledged in sponges. However, the full spectrum of specificity remains unclear. In particular, it is not known whether closely related sponges host similar or very different microbiota over wide bathymetric and geographic gradients, and whether specific associations extend to the rare members of the sponge microbiome. Using the ultra-deep Illumina sequencing technology, we conducted a comparison of sponge bacterial communities in seven closely related Hexadella species with a well-resolved host phylogeny, as well as of a distantly related sponge Mycale. These samples spanned unprecedentedly large bathymetric (15-960 m) gradients and varying European locations. In addition, this study included a bacterial community analysis of the local background seawater for both Mycale and the widespread deep-sea taxa Hexadella cf. dedritifera. We observed a striking diversity of microbes associated with the sponges, spanning 47 bacterial phyla. The data did not reveal any Hexadella microbiota co-speciation pattern, but confirmed sponge-specific and species-specific host-bacteria associations, even within extremely low abundant taxa. Oligotyping analysis also revealed differential enrichment preferences of closely related Nitrospira members in closely related sponges species. Overall, these results demonstrate highly diverse, remarkably specific and stable sponge-bacteria associations that extend to members of the rare biosphere at a very fine phylogenetic scale, over significant geographic and bathymetric gradients.	2014	8	10.1038/ismej.2013.227
Zhang, Y; Zhao, ZH; Dai, MH; Jiao, NZ; Herndl, GJ	Drivers shaping the diversity and biogeography of total and active bacterial communities in the South China Sea	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	To test the hypothesis that different drivers shape the diversity and biogeography of the total and active bacterial community, we examined the bacterial community composition along two transects, one from the inner Pearl River estuary to the open waters of the South China Sea (SCS) and the other from the Luzon Strait to the SCS basin, using 454 pyrosequencing of the 16S rRNA and 16S rRNA gene (V1-3 regions) and thereby characterizing the active and total bacterial community, respectively. The diversity and biogeographic patterns differed substantially between the active and total bacterial communities. Although the composition of both the total and active bacterial community was strongly correlated with environmental factors and weakly correlated with geographic distance, the active bacterial community displayed higher environmental sensitivity than the total community and particularly a greater distance effect largely caused by the active assemblage from deep waters. The 16S rRNA vs. rDNA relationships indicated that the active bacteria were low in relative abundance in the SCS. This might be due to a high competition between active bacterial taxa as indicated by our community network models. Based on these analyses, we speculate that high competition could cause some dispersal limitation of the active bacterial community resulting in a distinct distance-decay relationship. Altogether, our results indicated that the biogeographic distribution of bacteria in the SCS is the result of both environmental control and distance decay.	2014	23	10.1111/mec.12739
Vaz, ABM; Fontenla, S; Rocha, FS; Brandao, LR; Vieira, MLA; De Garcia, V; Goes-Neto, A; Rosa, CA	Fungal endophyte beta-diversity associated with Myrtaceae species in an Andean Patagonian forest (Argentina) and an Atlantic forest (Brazil)	FUNGAL ECOLOGY	The biogeography of microorganisms is poorly understood and how microbial diversity is structured is still an open debate. We investigated the processes underlying the fungal endophyte assemblages of phylogenetically related Myrtae host tree species at different spatial scales: regional, 101-5 000 km; local, 0-100 km; and microscale, 0-1 km. A total of 939 isolates was obtained and assigned to 51 distinct MOTUs based on the sequencing of the nrITS region. At regional scales, geographic distance was responsible for explaining the fungal community similarity, while, at a local scale, it was the environmental distance. Moreover, fungal endophytes exhibit preference in the colonization of Luma apiculata but not for Myrceugenia ovata var. nanophylla. Our results suggest that fungal endophytes are not randomly distributed and are influenced by both geographic and environment distances depending on the spatial scale analysed. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd and The British Mycological Society. All rights reserved.	2014	8	10.1016/j.funeco.2013.12.008
Adams, RI; Miletto, M; Lindow, SE; Taylor, JW; Bruns, TD	Airborne Bacterial Communities in Residences: Similarities and Differences with Fungi	PLOS ONE	Genetic analysis of indoor air has uncovered a rich microbial presence, but rarely have both the bacterial and fungal components been examined in the same samples. Here we present a study that examined the bacterial component of passively settled microbes from both indoor and outdoor air over a discrete time period and for which the fungal component has already been reported. Dust was allowed to passively settle in five common locations around a home - living room, bedroom, bathroom, kitchen, and balcony - at different dwellings within a university-housing complex for a one-month period at two time points, once in summer and again in winter. We amplified the bacterial 16S rRNA gene in these samples and analyzed them with high-throughput sequencing. Like fungal OTU-richness, bacterial OTU-richness was higher outdoors then indoors and was invariant across different indoor room types. While fungal composition was structured largely by season and residential unit, bacterial composition varied by residential unit and room type. Bacteria from putative outdoor sources, such as Sphingomonas and Deinococcus, comprised a large percentage of the balcony samples, while human-associated taxa comprised a large percentage of the indoor samples. Abundant outdoor bacterial taxa were also observed indoors, but the reverse was not true; this is unlike fungi, in which the taxa abundant indoors were also well-represented outdoors. Moreover, there was a partial association of bacterial composition and geographic distance, such that samples separated by even a few hundred meters tended have greater compositional differences than samples closer together in space, a pattern also observed for fungi. These data show that while the outdoor source for indoor bacteria and fungi varies in both space and time, humans provide a strong and homogenizing effect on indoor bacterial bioaerosols, a pattern not observed in fungi.	2014	9	10.1371/journal.pone.0091283
Liu, JJ; Sui, YY; Yu, ZH; Shi, Y; Chu, HY; Jin, J; Liu, XB; Wang, GH	High throughput sequencing analysis of biogeographical distribution of bacterial communities in the black soils of northeast China	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	Black soils (Mollisols) are one of the most important soil resources for maintaining food security of China and are mainly distributed in northeast China. To understand which environmental factors influence the microbial communities and how the communities are distributed in the black soils, we collected 26 soil samples with different soil carbon contents across the black soil zone in northeast China, and the soil bacterial community compositions were estimated using high resolution bar-coded pyrosequencing. A total of 355,813 bacterial 16S rDNA sequences were obtained, which were classified into at least 35 bacterial groups. The dominant groups across all samples (>5% of all sequences) were Acidobacteria, Actinobacteria, Proteobacteria, Bacteroidetes, Chloroflexi, Gemmatimonadetes and Planctomycetes. The composition and diversity of the soil bacterial community were dominantly affected by both soil pH and soil total carbon content, and the effect of soil pH was stronger than that of soil carbon content. Variance partitioning analysis showed that geographic distance contributed 14.75% of the bacterial community variation, and soil environmental factors explained approximately 37.52% of the variation. Pairwise analysis showed that a relatively higher diversity of the bacterial community was observed at lower latitudes, suggesting that a latitudinal diversity gradient of the bacterial community might be present in the black soil zone. In general, our results indicated that contemporary factors, such as soil pH and soil carbon content, were more important than the historical factor of geographic distance in shaping the bacterial community in the black soil zone in northeast China. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2014	70	10.1016/j.soilbio.2013.12.014
Carbonero, F; Oakley, BB; Purdy, KJ	Metabolic Flexibility as a Major Predictor of Spatial Distribution in Microbial Communities	PLOS ONE	A better understand the ecology of microbes and their role in the global ecosystem could be achieved if traditional ecological theories can be applied to microbes. In ecology organisms are defined as specialists or generalists according to the breadth of their niche. Spatial distribution is often used as a proxy measure of niche breadth; generalists have broad niches and a wide spatial distribution and specialists a narrow niche and spatial distribution. Previous studies suggest that microbial distribution patterns are contrary to this idea; a microbial generalist genus (Desulfobulbus) has a limited spatial distribution while a specialist genus (Methanosaeta) has a cosmopolitan distribution. Therefore, we hypothesise that this counter-intuitive distribution within generalist and specialist microbial genera is a common microbial characteristic. Using molecular fingerprinting the distribution of four microbial genera, two generalists, Desulfobulbus and the methanogenic archaea Methanosarcina, and two specialists, Methanosaeta and the sulfate-reducing bacteria Desulfobacter were analysed in sediment samples from along a UK estuary. Detected genotypes of both generalist genera showed a distinct spatial distribution, significantly correlated with geographic distance between sites. Genotypes of both specialist genera showed no significant differential spatial distribution. These data support the hypothesis that the spatial distribution of specialist and generalist microbes does not match that seen with specialist and generalist large organisms. It may be that generalist microbes, while having a wider potential niche, are constrained, possibly by intrageneric competition, to exploit only a small part of that potential niche while specialists, with far fewer constraints to their niche, are more capable of filling their potential niche more effectively, perhaps by avoiding intrageneric competition. We suggest that these counter-intuitive distribution patterns may be a common feature of microbes in general and represent a distinct microbial principle in ecology, which is a real challenge if we are to develop a truly inclusive ecology.	2014	9	10.1371/journal.pone.0085105
Pita, L; Turon, X; Lopez-Legentil, S; Erwin, PM	Host rules: spatial stability of bacterial communities associated with marine sponges (Ircinia spp.) in the Western Mediterranean Sea	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Dispersal limitation and environmental selection are the main processes shaping free-living microbial communities, but host-related factors may also play a major role in structuring symbiotic communities. Here, we aimed to determine the effects of isolation-by-distance and host species on the spatial structure of sponge-associated bacterial communities using as a model the abundant demosponge genus Ircinia. We targeted three co-occurring Ircinia species and used terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) analysis of 16S rRNA gene sequences to explore the differentiation of their bacterial communities across a scale of hundreds of kilometres in the Western Mediterranean Sea. Multivariate analysis and nonmetric multidimensional scaling plots of T-RFLP profiles showed that bacterial communities in Ircinia sponges were structured by host species and remained stable across sampling locations, despite geographic distances (80-800km) and diverse local conditions. While significant differences among some locations were observed in Ircinia variabilis-derived communities, no correlation between geographic distance and community similarity was consistently detected for symbiotic bacteria in any host sponge species. Our results indicate that bacterial communities are mostly shaped by host species-specific factors and suggest that evolutionary processes acting on long-term symbiotic relationships have favored spatial stability of sponge-associated bacterial communities.	2013	86	10.1111/1574-6941.12159
Naff, CS; Darcy, JL; Schmidt, SK	Phylogeny and biogeography of an uncultured clade of snow chytrids	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Numerous studies have shown that snow can contain a diverse array of algae known as snow algae. Some reports also indicate that parasites of algae (e.g. chytrids) are also found in snow, but efforts to phylogenetically identify snow chytrids have not been successful. We used culture-independent molecular approaches to phylogenetically identify chytrids that are common in long-lived snowpacks of Colorado and Europe. The most remarkable finding of the present study was the discovery of a new clade of chytrids that has representatives in snowpacks of Colorado and Switzerland and cold sites in Nepal and France, but no representatives from warmer ecosystems. This new clade (Snow Clade 1 or SC1) is as deeply divergent as its sister clade, the Lobulomycetales, and phylotypes of SC1 show significant (P<0.003) genetic-isolation by geographic distance patterns, perhaps indicating a long evolutionary history in the cryosphere. In addition to SC1, other snow chytrids were phylogenetically shown to be in the order Rhizophydiales, a group with known algal parasites and saprotrophs. We suggest that these newly discovered snow chytrids are important components of snow ecosystems where they contribute to snow food-web dynamics and the release of nutrients due to their parasitic and saprotrophic activities.	2013	15	10.1111/1462-2920.12116
Ruff, SE; Arnds, J; Knittel, K; Amann, R; Wegener, G; Ramette, A; Boetius, A	Microbial Communities of Deep-Sea Methane Seeps at Hikurangi Continental Margin (New Zealand)	PLOS ONE	The methane-emitting cold seeps of Hikurangi margin (New Zealand) are among the few deep-sea chemosynthetic ecosystems of the Southern Hemisphere known to date. Here we compared the biogeochemistry and microbial communities of a variety of Hikurangi cold seep ecosystems. These included highly reduced seep habitats dominated by bacterial mats, partially oxidized habitats populated by heterotrophic ampharetid polychaetes and deeply oxidized habitats dominated by chemosynthetic frenulate tubeworms. The ampharetid habitats were characterized by a thick oxic sediment layer that hosted a diverse and biomass-rich community of aerobic methanotrophic Gammaproteobacteria. These bacteria consumed up to 25% of the emanating methane and clustered within three deep-branching groups named Marine Methylotrophic Group (MMG) 1-3. MMG1 and MMG2 methylotrophs belong to the order Methylococcales, whereas MMG3 methylotrophs are related to the Methylophaga. Organisms of the groups MMG1 and MMG3 are close relatives of chemosynthetic endosymbionts of marine invertebrates. The anoxic sediment layers of all investigated seeps were dominated by anaerobic methanotrophic archaea (ANME) of the ANME-2 clade and sulfate-reducing Deltaproteobacteria. Microbial community analysis using Automated Ribosomal Intergenic Spacer Analysis (ARISA) showed that the different seep habitats hosted distinct microbial communities, which were strongly influenced by the seep-associated fauna and the geographic location. Despite outstanding features of Hikurangi seep communities, the organisms responsible for key ecosystem functions were similar to those found at seeps worldwide. This suggests that similar types of biogeochemical settings select for similar community composition regardless of geographic distance. Because ampharetid polychaetes are widespread at cold seeps the role of aerobic methanotrophy may have been underestimated in seafloor methane budgets.	2013	8	10.1371/journal.pone.0072627
Franzetti, A; Tatangelo, V; Gandolfi, I; Bertolini, V; Bestetti, G; Diolaiuti, G; DAgata, C; Mihalcea, C; Smiraglia, C; Ambrosini, R	Bacterial community structure on two alpine debris-covered glaciers and biogeography of Polaromonas phylotypes	ISME JOURNAL	High-elevation cold environments are considered ideal places to test hypotheses about mechanisms of bacterial colonization and succession, and about bacterial biogeography. Debris-covered glaciers (glaciers whose ablation area is mainly covered by a continuous layer of rock debris fallen from the surrounding mountains) have never been investigated in this respect so far. We used the Illumina technology to analyse the V5 and V6 hypervariable regions of the bacterial 16S rRNA gene amplified from 38 samples collected in July and September 2009 at different distances from the terminus on two debris-covered glaciers (Miage and Belvedere-Italian Alps). Heterotrophic taxa-dominated communities and bacterial community structure changed according to ice ablation rate, organic carbon content of the debris and distance from the glacier terminus. Bacterial communities therefore change during downwards debris transport, and organic carbon of these recently exposed substrates is probably provided more by allochthonous deposition of organic matter than by primary production by autotrophic organisms. We also investigated whether phylotypes of the genus Polaromonas, which is ubiquitous in cold environments, do present a biogeographical distribution by analysing the sequences retrieved in this study together with others available in the literature. We found that the genetic distance among phylotypes increased with geographic distance; however, more focused analyses using discrete distance classes revealed that both sequences collected at sites <100 km and at sites 9400-13 500 km to each other were more similar than those collected at other distance classes. Evidences of biogeographic distribution of Polaromonas phylotypes were therefore contrasting.	2013	7	10.1038/ismej.2013.48
Pasternak, Z; Al-Ashhab, A; Gatica, J; Gafny, R; Avraham, S; Minz, D; Gillor, O; Jurkevitch, E	Spatial and Temporal Biogeography of Soil Microbial Communities in Arid and Semiarid Regions	PLOS ONE	Microbial communities in soils may change in accordance with distance, season, climate, soil texture and other environmental parameters. Microbial diversity patterns have been extensively surveyed in temperate regions, but few such studies attempted to address them with respect to spatial and temporal scales and their correlations to environmental factors, especially in arid ecosystems. In order to fill this gap on a regional scale, the molecular fingerprints and abundance of three taxonomic groups - Bacteria, alpha-Proteobacteria and Actinobacteria - were sampled from soils 0.5-100 km apart in arid, semi-arid, dry Mediterranean and shoreline Mediterranean regions in Israel. Additionally, on a local scale, the molecular fingerprints of three taxonomic groups - Bacteria, Archaea and Fungi - were sampled from soils 1 cm-500 m apart in the semi-arid region, in both summer and winter. Fingerprints of the Bacteria differentiated between all regions (P<0.02), while those of the a-Proteobacteria differentiated between some of the regions (0.01<P<0.09), and actinobacterial fingerprints were similar among all regions (P>0.05). Locally, fingerprints of archaea and fungi did not display distance-decay relationships (P>0.13), that is, the dissimilarity between communities did not increase with geographic distance. Neither was this phenomenon evident in bacterial samples in summer (P>0.24); in winter, however, differences between bacterial communities significantly increased as the geographic distances between them grew (P<0.01). Microbial community structures, as well as microbial abundance, were both significantly correlated to precipitation and soil characteristics: texture, organic matter and water content (R-2>0.60, P<0.01). We conclude that on the whole, microbial biogeography in arid and semi-arid soils in Israel is determined more by specific environmental factors than geographic distances and spatial distribution patterns.	2013	8	10.1371/journal.pone.0069705
Wu, B; Tian, JQ; Bai, CM; Xiang, MC; Sun, JZ; Liu, XZ	The biogeography of fungal communities in wetland sediments along the Changjiang River and other sites in China	ISME JOURNAL	Whether fungal community structure depends more on historical factors or on contemporary factors is controversial. This study used culture-dependent and -independent (polymerase chain reaction-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (PCR-DGGE)) methods to assess the influence of historical and contemporary factors on the distributions of fungi in the wetland sediments at 10 locations along the Changjiang River and at 10 other locations in China. The culture-dependent approach detected greater species diversity (177 operational taxonomic units (OTUs)) than PCR-DGGE analysis (145 OTUs), and the species in the genera of Penicillium (relative frequency 16.8%), Fusarium (15.4%), Aspergillus (7.6%), Trichoderma (5.8%) and Talaromyces (4.2%) were dominant. On the basis of DGGE data, fungal diversity along the Changjiang River increased from upstream to downstream; altitude explained 44.8% of this variation in diversity. And based on the data from all 20 locations, the fungal communities were geographically clustered into three groups: Southern China, Northern China and the Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau. Multivariate regression tree analysis for data from the 20 locations indicated that the fungal community was influenced primarily by location (which explained 61.8% of the variation at a large scale), followed by total potassium (9.4%) and total nitrogen (3.5%) at a local scale. These results are consistent with the concept that geographic distance is the dominant factor driving variation in fungal diversity at a regional scale (1000-4000 km), whereas environmental factors (total potassium and total nitrogen) explain variation in fungal diversity at a local scale (<1000 km).	2013	7	10.1038/ismej.2013.29
Lepere, C; Domaizon, I; Taib, N; Mangot, JF; Bronner, G; Boucher, D; Debroas, D	Geographic distance and ecosystem size determine the distribution of smallest protists in lacustrine ecosystems	FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY	Understanding the spatial distribution of aquatic microbial diversity and the underlying mechanisms causing differences in community composition is a challenging and central goal for ecologists. Recent insights into protistan diversity and ecology are increasing the debate over their spatial distribution. In this study, we investigate the importance of spatial and environmental factors in shaping the small protists community structure in lakes. We analyzed small protists community composition (beta-diversity) and richness (alpha-diversity) at regional scale by different molecular methods targeting the gene coding for 18S rRNA gene (T-RFLP and 454 pyrosequencing). Our results show a distance-decay pattern for rare and dominant taxa and the spatial distribution of the latter followed the prediction of the island biogeography theory. Furthermore, geographic distances between lakes seem to be the main force shaping the protists community composition in the lakes studied here. Finally, the spatial distribution of protists was discussed at the global scale (11 worldwide distributed lakes) by comparing these results with those present in the public database. UniFrac analysis showed 18S rRNA gene OTUs compositions significantly different among most of lakes, and this difference does not seem to be related to the trophic status.	2013	85	10.1111/1574-6941.12100
Himsworth, CG; Bidulka, J; Parsons, KL; Feng, AYT; Tang, P; Jardine, CM; Kerr, T; Mak, S; Robinson, J; Patrick, DM	Ecology of Leptospira interrogans in Norway Rats (Rattus norvegicus) in an Inner-City Neighborhood of Vancouver, Canada	PLOS NEGLECTED TROPICAL DISEASES	Background: Leptospira interrogans is a bacterial zoonosis with a worldwide distribution for which rats (Rattus spp.) are the primary reservoir in urban settings. In order to assess, monitor, and mitigate the risk to humans, it is important to understand the ecology of this pathogen in rats. The objective of this study was to characterize the ecology of L. interrogans in Norway rats (Rattus norvegicus) in an impoverished inner-city neighborhood of Vancouver, Canada. Methodology/Principal Findings: Trapping was performed in 43 city blocks, and one location within the adjacent port, over a 12 month period. Kidney samples were tested for the presence of L. interrogans using PCR and sequencing. A multivariable model was built to predict L. interrogans infection status in individual rats using season and morphometric data (e. g., weight, sex, maturity, condition, etc.) as independent variables. Spatial analysis was undertaken to identify clusters of high and low L. interrogans prevalence. The prevalence of L. interrogans varied remarkably among blocks (0-66.7%), and spatial clusters of both high and low L. interrogans prevalence were identified. In the final cluster-controlled model, characteristics associated with L. interrogans-infection in rats included weight (OR = 1.14, 95% CI = 1.07-1.20), increased internal fat (OR = 2.12, 95% CI = 1.06-4.25), and number of bite wounds (OR = 1.20, 95% CI = 0.96-1.49). Conclusions/Significance: Because L. interrogans prevalence varied with weight, body fat, and bite wounds, this study suggests that social structure and interactions among rats may influence transmission. The prevalence and distribution of L. interrogans in rats was also highly variable even over a short geographic distance. These factors should be considered in future risk management efforts.	2013	7	10.1371/journal.pntd.0002270
Lear, G; Washington, V; Neale, M; Case, B; Buckley, H; Lewis, G	The biogeography of stream bacteria	GLOBAL ECOLOGY AND BIOGEOGRAPHY	Aim The extent to which bacterial communities exhibit biogeographic patterns in their distribution remains unclear. We examined the relative influence of factors including geographic distance, latitude, elevation and catchment land use on the distribution and taxon richness of stream bacterial communities across New Zealand. Location Bacterial communities were collected from biofilm growing on submerged rocks in 244 streams. Sample sites spanned a northsouth gradient of over 970km, an elevational gradient of c. 750m and were collected from a variety of catchment types across New Zealand. Methods We used automated ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis, a DNA fingerprinting technique, to characterize the structure and taxon richness of each bacterial community. Key attributes relating to sample location, upstream catchment land use and a suite of additional environmental parameters were collected for every site using GIS procedures. Univariate correlations between measures of bacterial community structure and latitude, elevation and distance were examined. Variance partitioning was then used to assess the relative importance of purely spatial factors versus catchment land use and environmental attributes for determining bacterial community structure and taxon richness. Results Bacterial taxon richness was related to the geographic location of the sample site, being significantly greater at latitudes closer to the equator and reduced at higher elevations. We observed distance decay patterns in bacterial community similarity related to geographic distance and latitudinal distance, but not to elevational distance. Overall, however, bacterial community similarity and taxon richness was more closely related to variability in catchment land use than to climatic variability or geographic location. Main conclusion Our data suggest that stream biofilm communities across New Zealand are more influenced by catchment land use attributes than by dispersal limitation.	2013	22	10.1111/geb.12046
Lin, W; Wang, YZ; Gorby, Y; Nealson, K; Pan, YX	Integrating niche-based process and spatial process in biogeography of magnetotactic bacteria	SCIENTIFIC REPORTS	Microorganisms play key roles in biogeochemical and nutrient cycling in all ecosystems on Earth, yet little is known about the processes controlling their biogeographic distributions. Here we report an investigation of magnetotactic bacteria (MTB) designed to evaluate the roles of niche-based process and spatial process in explaining variation in bacterial communities across large spatial scales. Our results show that both environmental heterogeneity and geographic distance play significant roles in shaping dominant populations of MTB community composition. At the spatial scale in this study, the biogeography of MTB is relatively more influenced by environmental factors than geographic distance, suggesting that local conditions override the effects of dispersal history on structuring MTB community. Of note, we found that the strength of geomagnetic field may influence the biogeography of MTB. We argue that MTB have the potential to serve as a model group to uncover the underlying processes that influence microbial biogeography.	2013	3	10.1038/srep01643
Hamdan, LJ; Coffin, RB; Sikaroodi, M; Greinert, J; Treude, T; Gillevet, PM	Ocean currents shape the microbiome of Arctic marine sediments	ISME JOURNAL	Prokaryote communities were investigated on the seasonally stratified Alaska Beaufort Shelf (ABS). Water and sediment directly underlying water with origin in the Arctic, Pacific or Atlantic oceans were analyzed by pyrosequencing and length heterogeneity-PCR in conjunction with physicochemical and geographic distance data to determine what features structure ABS microbiomes. Distinct bacterial communities were evident in all water masses. Alphaproteobacteria explained similarity in Arctic surface water and Pacific derived water. Deltaproteobacteria were abundant in Atlantic origin water and drove similarity among samples. Most archaeal sequences in water were related to unclassified marine Euryarchaeota. Sediment communities influenced by Pacific and Atlantic water were distinct from each other and pelagic communities. Firmicutes and Chloroflexi were abundant in sediment, although their distribution varied in Atlantic and Pacific influenced sites. Thermoprotei dominated archaea in Pacific influenced sediments and Methanomicrobia dominated in methane-containing Atlantic influenced sediments. Length heterogeneity-PCR data from this study were analyzed with data from methane-containing sediments in other regions. Pacific influenced ABS sediments clustered with Pacific sites from New Zealand and Chilean coastal margins. Atlantic influenced ABS sediments formed another distinct cluster. Density and salinity were significant structuring features on pelagic communities. Porosity co-varied with benthic community structure across sites and methane did not. This study indicates that the origin of water overlying sediments shapes benthic communities locally and globally and that hydrography exerts greater influence on microbial community structure than the availability of methane. The ISME Journal (2013) 7, 685-696; doi:10.1038/ismej.2012.143; published online 29 November 2012	2013	7	10.1038/ismej.2012.143
Filker, S; Stock, A; Breiner, HW; Edgcomb, V; Orsi, W; Yakimov, MM; Stoeck, T	Environmental selection of protistan plankton communities in hypersaline anoxic deep-sea basins, Eastern Mediterranean Sea	MICROBIOLOGYOPEN	High salt concentrations, absence of light, anoxia, and high hydrostatic pressure make deep hypersaline anoxic basins (DHABs) in the Eastern Mediterranean Sea one of the most polyextreme habitats on Earth. Taking advantage of the unique chemical characteristics of these basins, we tested the effect of environmental selection and geographic distance on the structure of protistan communities. Terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) analyses were performed on water samples from the brines and seawater/brine interfaces of five basins: Discovery, Urania, Thetis, Tyro, and Medee. Using statistical analyses, we calculated the partitioning of diversity among the ten individual terminal restriction fragment (T-RF) profiles, based on peak abundance and peak incidence. While a significant distance effect on spatial protistan patterns was not detected, hydrochemical gradients emerged as strong dispersal barriers that likely lead to environmental selection in the DHAB protistan plankton communities. We identified sodium, magnesium, sulfate, and oxygen playing in concerto as dominant environmental drivers for the structuring of protistan plankton communities in the Eastern Mediterranean DHABs.	2013	2	10.1002/mbo3.56
Zhang, T; Xu, JH; Zeng, J; Lou, K	Diversity of prokaryotes associated with soils around coal-fire gas vents in MaNasi county of Xinjiang, China	ANTONIE VAN LEEUWENHOEK INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF GENERAL AND MOLECULAR MICROBIOLOGY	Bacterial and archaeal diversity in surface soils of three coal-fire vents was investigated by T-RFLP analysis and clone libraries of 16S rRNA genes. Soil analysis showed that underground coal fires significantly influenced soil pH, moisture and NO3 (-) content but had little effect on other elements, organic matter and available nutrients. Hierarchical cluster analysis showed that bacterial community patterns in the soils were very similar, but abundance varied with geographic distance. A clone library from one soil showed that the bacterial community was mainly composed of Firmicutes, Proteobacteria, Acidobacteria, Bacteroidetes, Planctomycetes, Actinobacteria, and unidentified groups. Of these, Firmicutes was the most abundant, accounting for 71.4 % of the clones, and was mainly represented by the genera Bacillus and Paenibacillus. Archaeal phylotypes were closely related to uncultivated species of the phyla Crenarchaeota (97.9 % of clones) and Thaumarchaeota (2.1 %). About 28 % of archaeal phylotypes were associated with ammonia oxidization, especially phylotypes that were highly related to a novel, ammonia-oxidizing isolate from the phylum Thaumarchaeota. These results suggested that microbial communities in the soils were diverse and might contain a large number of novel cultivable species with the potential to assimilate materials by heterotrophic metabolism at high temperature.	2013	103	10.1007/s10482-012-9782-3
de Figueiredo, DR; Castro, BB; Pereira, MJ; Correia, A	Bacterioplankton community composition in Portuguese water bodies under a severe summer drought	COMMUNITY ECOLOGY	In 2005, a severe drought occurred in Portugal, with several reservoirs becoming dry in the southern region. A set of 20 Portuguese water bodies were analysed through denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (16SrDNA-DGGE) and DNA sequencing to assess its bacterioplankton diversity under these particular conditions. Environmental parameters were determined to assess the trophic conditions of each water body. Most water bodies fell into the meso-to eutrophic and hypereutrophic state. In general, the levels for conductivity, pH and total suspended solids were higher than the average data from previous years. Dominant phylotypes belonged to Cyanobacteria, Actinobacteria Alphaproteobacteria, Betaproteobacteria and Bacteroidetes groups. Despite the geographic distance, common phylotypes could be recorded among water bodies. Bacteroidetes dominated at Sousa River and were related to high nutrient levels. Cyanobacteria dominated at Alentejo reservoirs and correlated with higher conductivity values. However, Actinobacteria showed ubiquitous phylotypes throughout several samples, suggesting its persistence over geographically distant water bodies. This study showed a clear deterioration of water quality, from a physico-chemical point of view; furthermore, dominance of Cyanobacteria and Actinobacteria in reservoirs used for drinking water supply were also detected, which may become a concerning issue. However, the most severe bacterial community composition variations between summer 2005 and others were mainly related to higher water residence times. Thus, along with the expected intensification of drought episodes, with severe effects particularly in Southern Europe, it is clearly predictable an intensification in risks for water quality maintenance and even Public Health.	2012	13	10.1556/ComEc.13.2012.2.8
Jiang, XP; Langille, MGI; Neches, RY; Elliot, M; Levin, SA; Eisen, JA; Weitz, JS; Dushoff, J	Functional Biogeography of Ocean Microbes Revealed through Non-Negative Matrix Factorization	PLOS ONE	The direct metagenomic sequencing of genomic material from complex assemblages of bacteria, archaea, viruses and microeukaryotes has yielded new insights into the structure of microbial communities. For example, analysis of metagenomic data has revealed the existence of previously unknown microbial taxa whose spatial distributions are limited by environmental conditions, ecological competition, and dispersal mechanisms. However, differences in genotypes that might lead biologists to designate two microbes as taxonomically distinct need not necessarily imply differences in ecological function. Hence, there is a growing need for large-scale analysis of the distribution of microbial function across habitats. Here, we present a framework for investigating the biogeography of microbial function by analyzing the distribution of protein families inferred from environmental sequence data across a global collection of sites. We map over 6,000,000 protein sequences from unassembled reads from the Global Ocean Survey dataset to 8214 protein families, generating a protein family relative abundance matrix that describes the distribution of each protein family across sites. We then use non-negative matrix factorization (NMF) to approximate these protein family profiles as linear combinations of a small number of ecological components. Each component has a characteristic functional profile and site profile. Our approach identifies common functional signatures within several of the components. We use our method as a filter to estimate functional distance between sites, and find that an NMF-filtered measure of functional distance is more strongly correlated with environmental distance than a comparable PCA-filtered measure. We also find that functional distance is more strongly correlated with environmental distance than with geographic distance, in agreement with prior studies. We identify similar protein functions in several components and suggest that functional co-occurrence across metagenomic samples could lead to future methods for de-novo functional prediction. We conclude by discussing how NMF, and other dimension reduction methods, can help enable a macroscopic functional description of marine ecosystems.	2012	7	10.1371/journal.pone.0043866
Xiong, JB; Liu, YQ; Lin, XG; Zhang, HY; Zeng, J; Hou, JZ; Yang, YP; Yao, TD; Knight, R; Chu, HY	Geographic distance and pH drive bacterial distribution in alkaline lake sediments across Tibetan Plateau	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Continent-scale biogeography has been extensively studied in soils and marine systems, but little is known about biogeographical patterns in non-marine sediments. We used barcode pyrosequencing to quantify the effects of local geochemical properties and geographic distance for bacterial community structure and membership, using sediment samples from 15 lakes on the Tibetan Plateau (41670 km apart). Bacterial communities were surprisingly diverse, and distinct from soil communities. Four of 26 phyla detected were dominant: Proteobacteria, Bacteroidetes, Firmicutes and Actinobacteria, albeit 20.2% of sequences were unclassified at the phylum level. As previously observed in acidic soil, pH was the dominant factor influencing alkaline sediment community structure, phylotype richness and phylogenetic diversity. In contrast, archaeal communities were less affected by pH. More geographically distant sites had more dissimilar communities (r = 0.443, P = 0.030). Variance partitioning analysis showed that geographic distance (historical contingencies) contributed more to bacterial community variation (12.2%) than any other factor, although the environmental factors explained more variance when combined (28.9%). Together, our results show that pH is the best predictor of bacterial community structure in alkaline sediments, and confirm that both geographic distance and chemical factors govern bacterial biogeography in lake sediments.	2012	14	10.1111/j.1462-2920.2012.02799.x
Yavitt, JB; Yashiro, E; Cadillo-Quiroz, H; Zinder, SH	Methanogen diversity and community composition in peatlands of the central to northern Appalachian Mountain region, North America	BIOGEOCHEMISTRY	Methanogenic archaea are ubiquitous in peat soils; however, their diversity and distributions within and among peatland ecosystems are not well known. We used comprehensive clone libraries of 16S rRNA gene sequences to investigate spatial patterns in diversity (richness, evenness of taxa) and composition (taxonomic, phylogenetic) of the methanogenic community in six peatlands arrayed 775 km from eastern Ontario, Canada to West Virginia, USA. Five sites were Sphagnum (moss) and shrub dominated; one site was sedge dominated; and, potential rates of methane (CH4) production ranged from 15 to 450 nmol/g day. The gradient allowed us to examine influences of site conditions, site history, and climate on community composition. The region had representatives of methanogens from four taxonomic orders. We observed 29 operationally defined units (OTUs) based on > 97% sequence identity. One OTU accounted for 43% of all clones, whereas 15 OTUs were rare with < 1% of the total number of clones. The number of OTUs per site ranged from 4 to 21, and statistical analysis suggested diversity of 4-43 per site. Eighteen of the OTUs were endemic to one site; albeit, most endemics occurred in the sedge dominated site. One OTU was cosmopolitan, occurring in all six sites. We found a positive relationship between methanogen diversity and rates of CH4 production per site (Pearson r = 0.93). Turnover in community composition between sites was weakly related to geographic distance between sites, whereas variation in soil pH and annual temperature played larger roles. About 50% of the variation in community composition was unexplained by distance, pH, mean climate, and site age. We conclude that methanogen diversity in peatlands of the central Appalachian region is shaped by present-day environmental conditions, suggesting an influence of impending climatic and environmental changes.	2012	109	10.1007/s10533-011-9644-5
Tsagkarakou, A; Mouton, L; Kristoffersen, JB; Dokianakis, E; Grispou, M; Bourtzis, K	Population genetic structure and secondary endosymbionts of Q Bemisia tabaci (Hemiptera: Aleyrodidae) from Greece	BULLETIN OF ENTOMOLOGICAL RESEARCH	We investigated the molecular diversity of the major agricultural pest Bemisia tabaci and of its associated secondary endosymbionts in Greece. Analyzing mitochondrial DNA, we found that the Q1 (=Q west) is predominant. We used eight microsatellite polymorphic markers to study the genetic structure of 37 populations from mainland and insular Greece, collected on different host species from outdoor and protected crops as well as from non-cultivated plants. In some cases, gene flow was found to be low even between populations separated by just a few kilometres. Bayesian analysis identified two main genetic groups, the first encompassing populations from south Crete and the second composed of populations from north Crete, two other Aegean islands and mainland Greece. Genetic differentiation was not correlated with different host plant species or habitat, or greenhouse versus open environment populations. Gene flow significantly decreased with geographic distance, but no isolation by distance existed when only the samples from mainland Greece or only the samples from Crete were considered. The secondary symbionts Wolbachia and Hamiltonella were present at high frequencies while Arsenophonus, Cardinium and Rickettsia were absent from Greek populations. Multilocus sequence typing of Wolbachia identified two Wolbachia strains. These two strains were found together in most of the populations studied but never in the same host individual. Their role on the observed population structure is discussed.	2012	102	10.1017/S0007485311000757
Noyer, C; Becerro, MA	Relationship between genetic, chemical, and bacterial diversity in the Atlanto-Mediterranean bath sponge Spongia lamella	HYDROBIOLOGIA	Does diversity beget diversity? Diversity includes a diversity of concepts because it is linked to variability in and of life and can be applied to multiple levels. The connections between multiple levels of diversity are poorly understood. Here, we investigated the relationships between genetic, bacterial, and chemical diversity of the endangered Atlanto-Mediterranean sponge Spongia lamella. These levels of diversity are intrinsically related to sponge evolution and could have strong conservation implications. We used microsatellite markers, denaturing gel gradient electrophoresis and quantitative polymerase chain reaction, and high performance liquid chromatography to quantify genetic, bacterial, and chemical diversity of nine sponge populations. We then used correlations to test whether these diversity levels covaried. We found that sponge populations differed significantly in genetic, bacterial, and chemical diversity. We also found a strong geographic pattern of increasing genetic, bacterial, and chemical dissimilarity with increasing geographic distance between populations. However, we failed to detect significant correlations between the three levels of diversity investigated in our study. Our results suggest that diversity fails to beget diversity within a single species and indicates that a diversity of factors regulates a diversity of diversities, which highlights the complex nature of the mechanisms behind diversity.	2012	687	10.1007/s10750-011-0884-0
Astorga, A; Oksanen, J; Luoto, M; Soininen, J; Virtanen, R; Muotka, T	Distance decay of similarity in freshwater communities: do macro- and microorganisms follow the same rules?	GLOBAL ECOLOGY AND BIOGEOGRAPHY	Aim An intensively debated issue in macroecology is whether unicellular organisms show biogeographic patterns different from those of macroorganisms. One aspect of this debate addresses beta diversity, that is, do microbial organisms exhibit distance-decay patterns similar to those of macroorganisms? And if so, is the decay of community similarity caused by spatially limited dispersal or by niche-related factors? We studied the community similarity of stream diatoms, macroinvertebrates and bryophytes across the same set of sites in relation to environmental and geographic distance. Location A geographical gradient of c. 1100 km in Finland. Methods We first identified the subset of environmental variables that produced the highest correlation with community similarities for each taxonomic group. Based on these variables, we used partial Mantel tests to separate the independent influences of environmental and geographical distance for distance decay of community similarity, separately for diatoms, bryophytes and macroinvertebrates. Finally, macroinvertebrates were divided into three groups based on their different dispersal categories and a partial Mantel test was used to assess whether each of these groups were differently affected by environmental versus geographic distance, i.e. is dispersal a key factor in tests of niche versus neutral models. Results The level of environmental control was by far the strongest for diatoms; however, all groups were controlled more by environmental factors than by limited dispersal. Macroinvertebrate species with low dispersal ability were significantly related to geographic distance, while more effective dispersers showed no relationship to geography but were instead strongly related to environmental distance. Main conclusions Our results suggest that patterns between macro- and microorganisms are not fundamentally different, but the level of environmental control varies according to dispersal ability. The relative importance of niche versus dispersal processes is not simply a function of organism size but other traits ( e. g. life-history type, dispersal capacity) may obscure this relationship.	2012	21	10.1111/j.1466-8238.2011.00681.x
Monroy, F; van der Putten, WH; Yergeau, E; Mortimer, SR; Duyts, H; Bezemer, TM	Community patterns of soil bacteria and nematodes in relation to geographic distance	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	Ecosystems consist of aboveground and belowground subsystems and the structure of their communities is known to change with distance. However, most of this knowledge originates from visible, aboveground components, whereas relatively little is known about how soil community structure varies with distance and if this variability depends on the group of organisms considered. In the present study, we analyzed 30 grasslands from three neighboring chalk hill ridges in southern UK to determine the effect of geographic distance (1-198 km) on the similarity of bacterial communities and of nematode communities in the soil. We found that for both groups, community similarity decayed with distance and that this spatial pattern was not related to changes either in plant community composition or soil chemistry. Site history may have contributed to the observed pattern in the case of nematodes, since the distance effect depended on the presence of different nematode taxa at one of the hill ridges. On the other hand, site-related differences in bacterial community composition alone could not explain the spatial turnover, suggesting that other factors, such as biotic gradients and local dispersal processes that we did not include in our analysis, may be involved in the observed pattern. We conclude that, independently of the variety of causal factors that may be involved, the decay in similarity with geographic distance is a characteristic feature of both communities of soil bacteria and nematodes. (C) 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2012	45	10.1016/j.soilbio.2011.10.006
Wenner, S; Lodders, N; Kampfer, P	Diversity and biogeography of selected phyllosphere bacteria with special emphasis on Methylobacterium spp.	SYSTEMATIC AND APPLIED MICROBIOLOGY	On the basis of cultivation-dependent (isolation on mineral salt medium supplemented with 0.5% methanol) and -independent (DGGE analysis) methods, we investigated the influence of the host plant species Trifolium repens and Cerastium holosteoides, three geographic locations and the land-use types meadow, mown pasture and pasture on the abundance and community composition of selected phyllosphere bacteria with emphasis on Methylobacterium species. Methylobacterium abundance was significantly higher on leaves of T. repens (mean value 2.0 x 10(7) CFU PPFM per g leaf) than on leaves of C. holosteoides (mean value 2.0 x 10(6) CFU per g leaf). Leaves from the sampling site Schorfheide-Chorin showed slightly lower Methylobacterium numbers than leaves of the other sampling sites. Land-use and sampling period had no consistent influence on Methylobacterium community size. Methylobacterium community composition was very similar over both sampling periods, all three sampling sites, all land-use types and both plant species. Moreover, no relationship between geographic and genetic distance was observed. Community composition of selected Proteobacteria was influenced by plant species, geographic location and land-use. Often, differences in community composition could be observed between meadows, mown pastures and pastures but not between different kinds of meadows (cutted once versus three times) and mown pastures (fertilized versus non-fertilized). The results also indicate, that whether there are differences between land-use types or not strongly depends on the investigated host plant species and ecosystem. Besides Methylobacterium, representatives of Methylophilus were detected. The results indicate that Methylobacterium species are generally abundant and stable members of the phyllosphere community whereas other genera occur more occasionally, and that Methylobacterium clearly dominates the methylotrophic phyllosphere community. (C) 2011 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.	2011	34	10.1016/j.syapm.2011.08.005
Kivlin, SN; Hawkes, CV; Treseder, KK	Global diversity and distribution of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi	SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY	Arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi form associations with most land plants and can control carbon, nitrogen, and phosphorus cycling between above- and belowground components of ecosystems. Current estimates of AM fungal distributions are mainly inferred from the individual distributions of plant biomes, and climatic factors. However, dispersal limitation, local environmental conditions,and interactions among AM fungal taxa may also determine local diversity and global distributions. We assessed the relative importance of these potential controls by collecting 14,961 DNA sequences from 111 published studies and testing for relationships between AM fungal community composition and geography, environment, and plant biomes. Our results indicated that the global species richness of AM fungi was up to six times higher than previously estimated, largely owing to high beta diversity among sampling sites. Geographic distance, soil temperature and moisture, and plant community type were each significantly related to AM fungal community structure, but explained only a small amount of the observed variance. AM fungal species also tended to be phylogenetically clustered within sites, further suggesting that habitat filtering or dispersal limitation is a driver of AM fungal community assembly. Therefore, predicted shifts in climate and plant species distributions under global change may alter AM fungal communities. Published by Elsevier Ltd.	2011	43	10.1016/j.soilbio.2011.07.012
Darcy, JL; Lynch, RC; King, AJ; Robeson, MS; Schmidt, SK	Global Distribution of Polaromonas Phylotypes - Evidence for a Highly Successful Dispersal Capacity	PLOS ONE	Bacteria from the genus Polaromonas are dominant phylotypes in clone libraries and culture collections from polar and high-elevation environments. Although Polaromonas has been found on six continents, we do not know if the same phylotypes exist in all locations or if they exhibit genetic isolation by distance patterns. To examine their biogeographic distribution, we analyzed all available, long-read 16S rRNA gene sequences of Polaromonas phylotypes from glacial and periglacial environments across the globe. Using genetic isolation by geographic distance analyses, including Mantel tests and Mantel correlograms, we found that Polaromonas phylotypes are globally distributed showing weak isolation by distance patterns at global scales. More focused analyses using discrete, equally sampled distances classes, revealed that only two distance classes (out of 12 total) showed significant spatial structuring. Overall, our analyses show that most Polaromonas phylotypes are truly globally distributed, but that some, as yet unknown, environmental variable may be selecting for unique phylotypes at a minority of our global sites. Analyses of aerobiological and genomic data suggest that Polaromonas phylotypes are globally distributed as dormant cells through high-elevation air currents; Polaromonas phylotypes are common in air and snow samples from high altitudes, and a glacial-ice metagenome and the two sequenced Polaromonas genomes contain the gene hipA, suggesting that Polaromonas can form dormant cells.	2011	6	10.1371/journal.pone.0023742
McAllister, SM; Davis, RE; McBeth, JM; Tebo, BM; Emerson, D; Moyer, CL	Biodiversity and Emerging Biogeography of the Neutrophilic Iron-Oxidizing Zetaproteobacteria	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Members of the neutrophilic iron-oxidizing candidate class Zetaproteobacteria have predominantly been found at sites of microbially mediated iron oxidation in marine environments around the Pacific Ocean. Eighty-four full-length (>1,400-bp) and 48 partial-length Zetaproteobacteria small-subunit (SSU) rRNA gene sequences from five novel clone libraries, one novel Zetaproteobacteria isolate, and the GenBank database were analyzed to assess the biodiversity of this burgeoning class of the Proteobacteria and to investigate its biogeography between three major sampling regions in the Pacific Ocean: Loihi Seamount, the Southern Mariana Trough, and the Tonga Arc. Sequences were grouped into operational taxonomic units (OTUs) on the basis of a 97% minimum similarity. Of the 28 OTUs detected, 13 were found to be endemic to one of the three main sampling regions and 2 were ubiquitous throughout the Pacific Ocean. Additionally, two deeply rooted OTUs that potentially dominate communities of iron oxidizers originating in the deep subsurface were identified. Spatial autocorrelation analysis and analysis of molecular variance (AMOVA) showed that geographic distance played a significant role in the distribution of Zetaproteobacteria biodiversity, whereas environmental parameters, such as temperature, pH, or total Fe concentration, did not have a significant effect. These results, detected using the coarse resolution of the SSU rRNA gene, indicate that the Zetaproteobacteria have a strong biogeographic signal.	2011	77	10.1128/AEM.00533-11
Martiny, JBH; Eisen, JA; Penn, K; Allison, SD; Horner-Devine, MC	Drivers of bacterial beta-diversity depend on spatial scale	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	The factors driving beta-diversity (variation in community composition) yield insights into the maintenance of biodiversity on the planet. Here we tested whether the mechanisms that underlie bacterial beta-diversity vary over centimeters to continental spatial scales by comparing the composition of ammonia-oxidizing bacteria communities in salt marsh sediments. As observed in studies of macroorganisms, the drivers of salt marsh bacterial beta-diversity depend on spatial scale. In contrast to macroorganism studies, however, we found no evidence of evolutionary diversification of ammonia-oxidizing bacteria taxa at the continental scale, despite an overall relationship between geographic distance and community similarity. Our data are consistent with the idea that dispersal limitation at local scales can contribute to beta-diversity, even though the 16S rRNA genes of the relatively common taxa are globally distributed. These results highlight the importance of considering multiple spatial scales for understanding microbial biogeography.	2011	108	10.1073/pnas.1016308108
Hamilton, TL; Boyd, ES; Peters, JW	Environmental Constraints Underpin the Distribution and Phylogenetic Diversity of nifH in the Yellowstone Geothermal Complex	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Biological nitrogen fixation is a keystone process in many ecosystems, providing bioavailable forms of fixed nitrogen for members of the community. In the present study, degenerate primers targeting the nitrogenase iron protein-encoding gene (nifH) were designed and employed to investigate the physical and chemical parameters that underpin the distribution and diversity of nifH as a proxy for nitrogen-fixing organisms in the geothermal springs of Yellowstone National Park (YNP), Wyoming. nifH was detected in 57 of the 64 YNP springs examined, which varied in pH from 1.90 to 9.78 and temperature from 16A degrees C to 89A degrees C. This suggested that the distribution of nifH in YNP is widespread and is not constrained by pH and temperature alone. Phylogenetic and statistical analysis of nifH recovered from 13 different geothermal spring environments indicated that the phylogeny exhibits evidence for both geographical and ecological structure. Model selection indicated that the phylogenetic relatedness of nifH assemblages could be best explained by the geographic distance between sampling sites. This suggests that nifH assemblages are dispersal limited with respect to the fragmented nature of the YNP geothermal spring environment. The second highest ranking explanatory variable for predicting the phylogenetic relatedness of nifH assemblages was spring water conductivity (a proxy for salinity), suggesting that salinity may constrain the distribution of nifH lineages in geographically isolated YNP spring ecosystems. In summary, these results indicate a widespread distribution of nifH in YNP springs, and suggest a role for geographical and ecological factors in constraining the distribution of nifH lineages in the YNP geothermal complex.	2011	61	10.1007/s00248-011-9824-9
Singh, SK; Ramaiah, N	Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis profiling of bacterial communities composition in Arabian Sea	JOURNAL OF ENVIRONMENTAL BIOLOGY	Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) was used to elucidate spatial and temporal variations in bacterial community composition (BCC) from four locations along the central west coast of India. DNA extracts from 36 water samples collected from surface, mid-depth (similar to 10 m) and dose to bottom (similar to 20 m) during premonsoon, postmonsoon, monsoon were analyzed by PCR for amplifying variable region of 16S rRNA gene and subsequently through DGGE. Prominent bands were excised, cloned and sequenced indicated the preponderance of gammaproteobacteria, bacteroidetes and cyanobacteria. Non-metric dimensional scaling of the DGGE gels indicated that the spatial variations in BCC were prominent among the sampling locations. Temporal variations in the BCC appear to be influenced by monsoonal processes. The canonical correspondence analyses suggest that the concentration of chlorophyll a and nitrate are two important environmental factors for both spatial and temporal variations in BCC. Chlorophyll a seems to be impart a top-down control of BCC while nitrate, the bottom-up control. Our results also suggest that BCC can vary over a small geographic distance in highly dynamic, seasonally predisposed tropical coastal waters.	2011	32	
Steger, D; Wentrup, C; Braunegger, C; Deevong, P; Hofer, M; Richter, A; Baranyi, C; Pester, M; Wagner, M; Loy, A	Microorganisms with Novel Dissimilatory (Bi)Sulfite Reductase Genes Are Widespread and Part of the Core Microbiota in Low-Sulfate Peatlands	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Peatlands of the Lehstenbach catchment (Germany) house as-yet-unidentified microorganisms with phylogenetically novel variants of the dissimilatory (bi)sulfite reductase genes dsrAB. These genes are characteristic of microorganisms that reduce sulfate, sulfite, or some organosulfonates for energy conservation but can also be present in anaerobic syntrophs. However, nothing is currently known regarding the abundance, community dynamics, and biogeography of these dsrAB-carrying microorganisms in peatlands. To tackle these issues, soils from a Lehstenbach catchment site (Schloppnerbrunnen II fen) from different depths were sampled at three time points over a 6-year period to analyze the diversity and distribution of dsrAB-containing microorganisms by a newly developed functional gene microarray and quantitative PCR assays. Members of novel, uncultivated dsrAB lineages (approximately representing species-level groups) (i) dominated a temporally stable but spatially structured dsrAB community and (ii) represented core members (up to 1% to 1.7% relative abundance) of the autochthonous microbial community in this fen. In addition, denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE)- and clone library-based comparisons of the dsrAB diversity in soils from a wet meadow, three bogs, and five fens of various geographic locations (distance of similar to 1 to 400 km) identified that one Syntrophobacter-related and nine novel dsrAB lineages are widespread in low-sulfate peatlands. Signatures of biogeography in dsrB-based DGGE data were not correlated with geographic distance but could be explained largely by soil pH and wetland type, implying that the distribution of dsrAB-carrying microorganisms in wetlands on the scale of a few hundred kilometers is not limited by dispersal but determined by local environmental conditions.	2011	77	10.1128/AEM.01352-10
Barberan, A; Casamayor, EO	Euxinic Freshwater Hypolimnia Promote Bacterial Endemicity in Continental Areas	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	Bacteria and archaea represent the vast majority of biodiversity on Earth. The ways that dynamic ecological and evolutionary processes interact in the microbial world are, however, poorly known. Here, we have explored community patterns of planktonic freshwater bacteria inhabiting stratified lakes with oxic/anoxic interfaces and euxinic (anoxic and sulfurous) water masses. The interface separates a well-oxygenated upper water mass (epilimnion) from a lower anoxic water compartment (hypolimnion). We assessed whether or not the vertical zonation of lakes promoted endemism in deeper layers by analyzing bacterial 16S rRNA gene sequences from the water column of worldwide distributed stratified lakes and applying a community ecology approach. Community similarity based on the phylogenetic relatedness showed that bacterial assemblages from the same water layer were more similar across lakes than to communities from different layer within lakes and that anoxic hypolimnia presented greater beta-diversity than oxic epilimnia. Higher beta-diversity values are attributable to low dispersal and small connectivity between community patches. In addition, surface waters had significant spatial but non-significant environmental components controlling phylogenetic beta-diversity patterns, respectively. Conversely, the bottom layers were significantly correlated with environment but not with geographic distance. Thus, we observed different ecological mechanisms simultaneously acting on the same water body. Overall, bacterial endemicity is probably more common than previously thought, particularly in isolated and environmentally heterogeneous freshwater habitats. We argue for a microbial diversity conservation perspective still lacking in the global and local biodiversity preservation policies.	2011	61	10.1007/s00248-010-9775-6
Ho, CT; Li, CT; Lin, SD	Modeling and Visualizing Information Propagation in a Micro-blogging Platform	2011 INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON ADVANCES IN SOCIAL NETWORKS ANALYSIS AND MINING (ASONAM 2011)	Micro-blogging is a type of social networking service that has become ubiquitous in Web 2.0 era. Micro-blogs allows bloggers to exchange information, discuss ideas, and share experiences with friends or even strangers with similar interests. In this paper, we try to identify ways to measure how information is propagated in micro-blogs. More specifically, we consider the following issues. (1) How to quantify a persons capability to disseminate ideas via a micro-blog. (2) How to measure the extent of propagation of a concept in a micro-blog. (3) How to demonstrate and visualize information propagation in a microblog. We propose methods to effectively measure each users ability to disseminate information via micro-blogs. The design of the measure considers three factors: (a) the number of people influenced; (b) the speed of propagation; and (c) the geographic distance of the propagation. We also provide an online demonstration micro-blog system that allows the users to explore the information propagation. The system shows the propagation paths and social graphs, influence scores, timelines, and geographical information among people for the user-given terms.	2011		10.1109/ASONAM.2011.37
Boyd, ES; Hamilton, TL; Spear, JR; Lavin, M; Peters, JW	[FeFe]-hydrogenase in Yellowstone National Park: evidence for dispersal limitation and phylogenetic niche conservatism	ISME JOURNAL	Hydrogen (H-2) has an important role in the anaerobic degradation of organic carbon and is the basis for many syntrophic interactions that commonly occur in microbial communities. Little is known, however, with regard to the biotic and/or abiotic factors that control the distribution and phylogenetic diversity of organisms which produce H-2 in microbial communities. In this study, we examined the [FeFe]-hydrogenase gene (hydA) as a proxy for fermentative bacterial H-2 production along physical and chemical gradients in various geothermal springs in Yellowstone National Park (YNP), WY, USA. The distribution of hydA in YNP geothermal springs was constrained by pH to environments co-inhabited by oxygenic phototrophs and to environments predicted to have low inputs of abiotic H-2. The individual HydA asssemblages from YNP springs were more closely related when compared with randomly assembled communities, which suggests ecological filtering. Model selection approaches revealed that geographic distance was the best explanatory variable to predict the phylogenetic relatedness of HydA communities. This evinces the dispersal limitation imposed by the geothermal spring environment on HydA phylogenetic diversity even at small spatial scales. pH differences between sites is the second highest ranked explanatory variable of HydA phylogenetic relatedness, which suggests that the ecology related to pH imposes strong phylogenetic niche conservatism. Collectively, these results indicate that pH has imposed strong niche conservatism on fermentative bacteria and that, within a narrow pH realm, YNP springs are dispersal limited with respect to fermentative bacterial communities. The ISME Journal (2010) 4, 1485-1495; doi:10.1038/ismej.2010.76; published online 10 June 2010	2010	4	10.1038/ismej.2010.76
Bell, T	Experimental tests of the bacterial distance-decay relationship	ISME JOURNAL	Community similarity declines with increasing geographic distance if species tend to be locally adapted or if they are dispersal limited. The distance-decay of similarity has been shown for bacteria previously, but distinguishing between these competing mechanisms is difficult from observational surveys. I found little evidence of a relationship between geographic distance and similarity in community composition in an aquatic bacterial community. When bacterial colonization occurred into initially identical sterile microcosms across a woodland, a strong distance-decay relationship was observed after 28 days, implying that dispersal limitation created a strong pattern in these communities in the absence of environmental differences. This conclusion was not supported by the results of a reciprocal transplant experiment. When microcosms at the extremities of the study area were transplanted to the opposite end of the study area, the communities converged on the community composition at the site to which they were transplanted. This convergence did not depend on whether colonization into the microcosms was prevented, implying a minor role for dispersal limitation over these spatial and temporal scales. Additional manipulations of colonization rates were consistent with the hypothesis that dispersal limitation structured these communities over short time scales (a few days), but that dispersal limitation had a minor role over longer time scales (47 days). The ISME Journal (2010) 4, 1357-1365; doi: 10.1038/ismej.2010.77; published online 10 June 2010	2010	4	10.1038/ismej.2010.77
Bissett, A; Richardson, AE; Baker, G; Wakelin, S; Thrall, PH	Life history determines biogeographical patterns of soil bacterial communities over multiple spatial scales	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	The extent to which the distribution of soil bacteria is controlled by local environment vs. spatial factors (e.g. dispersal, colonization limitation, evolutionary events) is poorly understood and widely debated. Our understanding of biogeographic controls in microbial communities is likely hampered by the enormous environmental variability encountered across spatial scales and the broad diversity of microbial life histories. Here, we constrained environmental factors (soil chemistry, climate, above-ground plant community) to investigate the specific influence of space, by fitting all other variables first, on bacterial communities in soils over distances from m to 102 km. We found strong evidence for a spatial component to bacterial community structure that varies with scale and organism life history (dispersal and survival ability). Geographic distance had no influence over community structure for organisms known to have survival stages, but the converse was true for organisms thought to be less hardy. Community function (substrate utilization) was also shown to be highly correlated with community structure, but not to abiotic factors, suggesting nonstochastic determinants of community structure are important Our results support the view that bacterial soil communities are constrained by both edaphic factors and geographic distance and further show that the relative importance of such constraints depends critically on the taxonomic resolution used to evaluate spatio-temporal patterns of microbial diversity, as well as life history of the groups being investigated, much as is the case for macro-organisms.	2010	19	10.1111/j.1365-294X.2010.04804.x
Petersen, JM; Ramette, A; Lott, C; Cambon-Bonavita, MA; Zbinden, M; Dubilier, N	Dual symbiosis of the vent shrimp Rimicaris exoculata with filamentous gamma- and epsilonproteobacteria at four Mid-Atlantic Ridge hydrothermal vent fields	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	The shrimp Rimicaris exoculata from hydrothermal vents on the Mid-Atlantic Ridge (MAR) harbours bacterial epibionts on specialized appendages and the inner surfaces of its gill chamber. Using comparative 16S rRNA sequence analysis and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), we examined the R. exoculata epibiosis from four vents sites along the known distribution range of the shrimp on the MAR. Our results show that R. exoculata lives in symbiosis with two types of filamentous epibionts. One belongs to the Epsilonproteobacteria, and was previously identified as the dominant symbiont of R. exoculata. The second is a novel gammaproteobacterial symbiont that belongs to a clade consisting exclusively of sequences from epibiotic bacteria of hydrothermal vent animals, with the filamentous sulfur oxidizer Leucothrix mucor as the closest free-living relative. Both the epsilon- and the gammaproteobacterial symbionts dominated the R. exoculata epibiosis at all four MAR vent sites despite striking differences between vent fluid chemistry and distances between sites of up to 8500 km, indicating that the symbiosis is highly stable and specific. Phylogenetic analyses of two mitochondrial host genes showed little to no differences between hosts from the four vent sites. In contrast, there was significant spatial structuring of both the gamma- and the epsilonproteobacterial symbiont populations based on their 16S rRNA gene sequences that was correlated with geographic distance along the MAR. We hypothesize that biogeography and host-symbiont selectivity play a role in structuring the epibiosis of R. exoculata.	2010	12	10.1111/j.1462-2920.2009.02129.x
Schauer, R; Bienhold, C; Ramette, A; Harder, J	Bacterial diversity and biogeography in deep-sea surface sediments of the South Atlantic Ocean	ISME JOURNAL	Microbial biogeographic patterns in the deep sea depend on the ability of microorganisms to disperse. One possible limitation to microbial dispersal may be the Walvis Ridge that separates the Antarctic Lower Circumpolar Deep Water from the North Atlantic Deep Water. We examined bacterial communities in three basins of the eastern South Atlantic Ocean to determine diversity and biogeography of bacterial communities in deep-sea surface sediments. The analysis of 16S ribosomal RNA (rRNA) gene clone libraries in each basin revealed a high diversity, representing 521 phylotypes with 98% identity in 1051 sequences. Phylotypes affiliated with Gammaproteobacteria, Deltaproteobacteria and Acidobacteria were present in all three basins. The distribution of these shared phylotypes seemed to be influenced neither by the Walvis Ridge nor by different deep water masses, suggesting a high dispersal capability, as also indicated by low distance-decay relationships. However, the total bacterial diversity showed significant differences between the basins, based on 16S rRNA gene sequences as well as on terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism fingerprints. Noticeably, both geographic distance and environmental heterogeneity influenced bacterial diversity at intermediate (10-3000 km) and large scales (43000 km), indicating a complex interplay of local contemporary environmental effects and dispersal limitation. The ISME Journal (2010) 4, 159-170; doi: 10.1038/ismej.2009.106; published online 15 October 2009	2010	4	10.1038/ismej.2009.106
Pagaling, E; Wang, HZ; Venables, M; Wallace, A; Grant, WD; Cowan, DA; Jones, BE; Ma, YH; Ventosa, A; Heaphy, S	Microbial Biogeography of Six Salt Lakes in Inner Mongolia, China, and a Salt Lake in Argentina	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	We used cultivation-independent methods to investigate the prokaryotic biogeography of the water column in six salt lakes in Inner Mongolia, China, and a salt lake in Argentina. These lakes had different salt compositions and pH values and were at variable geographic distances, on both local and intercontinental scales, which allowed us to explore the microbial community composition within the context of both contemporary environmental conditions and geographic distance. Fourteen 16S rRNA gene clone libraries were constructed, and over 200 16S rRNA gene sequences were obtained. These sequences were used to construct biotic similarity matrices, which were used in combination with environmental similarity matrices and a distance matrix in the Mantel test to discover which factors significantly influenced biotic similarity. We showed that archaeal biogeography was influenced by contemporary environmental factors alone (Na(+), CO(3)(2-), and HCO(3)(-) ion concentrations; pH; and temperature). Bacterial biogeography was influenced both by contemporary environmental factors (Na(+), Mg(2+), and HCO(3+) ion concentrations and pH) and by geographic distance.	2009	75	10.1128/AEM.00040-09
Yang, J; Zhang, WJ; Shen, YF	Relationships between Testate Amoebae Assemblages (Protozoa) and Geographic Factors in Yunnan Plateau Lakes, China	JOURNAL OF FRESHWATER ECOLOGY	Knowledge of the effect of geographic factors on the assemblages of protozoan testate amoebae is still limited, despite there having been a number of studies on this fauna. We applied statistical analyses to data on the distribution of testate amoebae from nine major lakes in the Yunnan Plateau, southwest China. Cluster analysis, based on community structure, separated the lakes into two groups - the oligotrophic/mesotrophic lakes and the hypercutrophic lakes - confirming the idea that the testate amoebae assemblages in lakes are closely related to the trophic status. Additionally, within the oligotrophic/mesotrophic lakes, there was distinct geographic clustering. Linear regression analysis and the Mantel test both revealed that similarity of species composition decreased with increasing geographic distance among the oligotrophic/mesotrophic lakes.	2009	24	10.1080/02705060.2009.9664316
Verleyen, E; Vyverman, W; Sterken, M; Hodgson, DA; De Wever, A; Juggins, S; Van de Vijver, B; Jones, VJ; Vanormelingen, P; Roberts, D; Flower, R; Kilroy, C; Souffreau, C; Sabbe, K	The importance of dispersal related and local factors in shaping the taxonomic structure of diatom metacommunities	OIKOS	To date, little is known about the relative importance of dispersal related versus local factors in shaping microbial metacommunities. A common criticism regarding existing datasets is that the level of taxonomic resolution might be too coarse to reliably assess microbial community structure and study biogeographical patterns. Moreover, few studies have assessed the importance of geographic distance between habitats, which may influence metacommunity dynamics through its effect on dispersal rates. We applied variation partitioning analyses to 15 separate regional datasets on diatoms found in lakes in Eurasia, Africa and Antarctica. These analyses quantified the relative contributions of dispersal related and local factors in determining patterns of taxonomic turnover at the species and at the genus level. In general, results were similar at both taxonomic levels. Local environmental factors accounted for most of the explained variation (median=21%), whereas dispersal related factors were much less important (median of significant fractions=5.5% variation explained) and failed to significantly explain any variation, independent of the environmental variables, in the majority of the datasets. However, the amount of variation explained by dispersal related factors increased with increasing geographic distance and increasing taxonomic resolution. We extrapolated our regional scale observations to the global scale by combining the regional datasets into a global dataset comprising 1039 freshwater lakes from both hemispheres and spanning a geographic distance of over 19 000 km. At this global scale, taxonomic turnover was lowest in highly connected habitats, once environmental factors were partialled out. In common with many other studies of macro-organisms, these analyses showed that both dispersal related and local variables significantly contribute to the structure of global lacustrine diatom communities.	2009	118	10.1111/j.1600-0706.2009.17575.x
Nelson, CE; Sadro, S; Melack, JM	Contrasting the influences of stream inputs and landscape position on bacterioplankton community structure and dissolved organic matter composition in high- elevation lake chains	LIMNOLOGY AND OCEANOGRAPHY	We examined bacterioplankton community composition (BCC; using polymerase chain reaction-based phylogenetic fingerprinting) and the composition of dissolved organic matter (DOM; using scanning fluorometry) within lake chains in high-elevation catchments of the Sierra Nevada, California. We compared temporal BCC dynamics in two connected cirque lakes and their inlets and found that lake : inlet community similarity of both lakes declined with increasing residence time because of seasonal snowpack melting. However, for over 3 yr the headwater lake remained distinct from its inlet even during peak snowmelt (residence time < 5 d), whereas the downstream lake was consistently similar to both its inlet and the upstream lake. We subsequently sampled 17 lake chains (4-8 lakes each) throughout the Sierra Nevada longitudinally to examine how landscape position and catchment characteristics influenced the similarity in BCC and DOM among lakes and their connecting streams. Headwater lakes were significantly less similar to their inlet streams than were downstream lakes. BCC was heterogeneous throughout each catchment, but headwater inlet BCC was consistently distinct from all downstream samples. In contrast, DOM exhibited a trend of increasing homogeneity as water moved downstream: upstream and downstream waters were distinct but without clear headwater outliers. The similarity in BCC and DOM between any two lakes within a chain declined with geographic distance. Our results illustrate the contrasting roles of environmental selection and dispersal in structuring bacterioplankton communities, supporting both strong within-lake environmental selection for communities distinct from terrigenous inputs and a weaker effect of geographic dispersal differentiating communities among lakes linked by advective flow.	2009	54	10.4319/lo.2009.54.4.1292
Keymer, DP; Lam, LH; Boehm, AB	Biogeographic Patterns in Genomic Diversity among a Large Collection of Vibrio cholerae Isolates	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Vibrio cholerae strains are capable of inhabiting multiple niches in the aquatic environment and in some cases cause disease in humans. However, the ecology and biodiversity of these bacteria in environmental settings remains poorly understood. We used the genomic fingerprinting technique enterobacterial repetitive intergenic consensus sequence PCR (ERIC-PCR) to profile 835 environmental isolates from waters and sediments obtained at nine sites along the central California coast. We identified 115 ERIC-PCR genotypes from 998 fingerprints, with a reproducibility of 98.5% and a discriminatory power of 0.971. When the temporal dynamics at a subset of sampling sites were explored, several genotypes provided evidence for cosmopolitan or geographically restricted distributions, and other genotypes displayed nonrandom patterns of cooccurrence. Partial Mantel tests confirmed that genotypic similarity of isolates across all sampling events was correlated with environmental similarity (0.04 <= r <= 0.05), temporal proximity (r = 0.09), and geographic distance (r = 0.09). A neutral community model for all sampling events explained 61% of the variation in genotype abundance. Cooccurrence indices (C-score, C-board, and Combo) were significantly different than expected by chance, suggesting that the V. cholerae population may have a competitive structure, especially at the regional scale. Even though stochastic processes are undoubtedly important in generating biogeographic patterns in diversity, deterministic factors appear to play a significant, albeit small, role in shaping the V. cholerae population structure in this system.	2009	75	10.1128/AEM.01304-08
Peterson, SB; Warnecke, F; Madejska, J; McMahon, KD; Hugenholtz, P	Environmental distribution and population biology of Candidatus Accumulibacter, a primary agent of biological phosphorus removal	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Members of the uncultured bacterial genus Candidatus Accumulibacter are capable of intracellular accumulation of inorganic phosphate in activated sludge wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs) performing enhanced biological phosphorus removal, but were also recently shown to inhabit freshwater and estuarine sediments. Additionally, metagenomic sequencing of two bioreactor cultures enriched in Candidatus Accumulibacter, but housed on separate continents, revealed the potential for global dispersal of particular Candidatus Accumulibacter strains, which we hypothesize is facilitated by the ability of Candidatus Accumulibacter to persist in environmental habitats. In the current study, we used sequencing of a phylogenetic marker, the ppk1 gene, to characterize Candidatus Accumulibacter populations in diverse environments, at varying distances from WWTPs. We discovered several new lineages of Candidatus Accumulibacter which had not previously been detected in WWTPs, and also uncovered new diversity and structure within previously detected lineages. Habitat characteristics were found to be a key determinant of Candidatus Accumulibacter lineage distribution while, as predicted, geographic distance played little role in limiting dispersal on a regional scale. However, on a local scale, enrichment of particular Candidatus Accumulibacter lineages in WWTP appeared to impact local environmental populations. These results provide evidence of ecological differences among Candidatus Accumulibacter lineages.	2008	10	10.1111/j.1462-2920.2008.01690.x
Marshall, MM; Amos, RN; Henrich, VC; Rublee, PA	Developing SSU rDNA metagenomic profiles of aquatic microbial communities for environmental assessments	ECOLOGICAL INDICATORS	Five water samples from three sources, two municipal reservoirs in central North Carolina and Toolik Lake in Alaska, were processed to conduct a comparative survey of microbial small subunit rDNA sequences. Genomic DNA was extracted and amplified by PCR using universal SSU rDNA primers to generate 16S and 18S rDNA clone libraries and 50 clones from each library were sequenced and placed in operational taxonomic units (OTUs). Through this recovery and analysis of SSU rRNA genes, a metagenomic profile of the microbial community emerged for each environmental sample. Analyses of these profiles, including species diversity estimates and rank-abundance curves, revealed that approximately 64% of prokaryotic OTUs and 80% of eukaryotic OTUs were novel. Diversity estimates were consistent with predicted ecosystem characteristics: they were greater for the mesotrophic to eutrophic temperate lakes, than for the oligotrophic arctic lake. Sample comparisons showed that community similarity declined as geographic distance between sites increased. Real-time quantitative PCR results showed that OTUs which had been recovered from only one library were actually present in other samples, but at much lower frequencies, suggesting that many, if not most, microorganisms are cosmopolitan. Together, these results support the potential value of using the microbial community as an indicator of local environmental conditions. In other words, it may be realistic to monitor water quality using a single, comprehensive suite of microorganisms by analyzing patterns of relative abundance. (C) 2007 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2008	8	10.1016/j.ecolind.2007.04.007
Winter, C; Moeseneder, MM; Herndl, GJ; Weinbauer, MG	Relationship of geographic distance, depth, temperature, and viruses with prokaryotic communities in the eastern tropical Atlantic Ocean	MICROBIAL ECOLOGY	The richness and biogeographical distribution pattern of bacterial and archaeal communities was assessed by terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis of polymerase chain reaction-amplified fragments of the 16S rRNA gene at the surface (15-25 m depth), in the deep chlorophyll maximum layer (DCM; 50 m depth), and deep waters (75-1000 m depth) of the eastern tropical Atlantic Ocean. Additionally, prokaryotic and viral abundance and the frequency of infected prokaryotic cells (FIC) were determined along with physico-chemical parameters to identify factors influencing prokaryotic richness and biogeography. Viral abundance was highest in the DCM layer averaging 45.5x10(6) ml(-1), whereas in the mixed surface layer and in the waters below the DCM, average viral abundance was 11.3x10(6) and 4.3x10(6) ml(-1), respectively. The average estimate of FIC was 8.3% in the mixed surface layer and the DCM and 2.4% in deeper waters. FIC was positively related to prokaryotic and viral abundance and negatively to archaeal richness. There was no detectable effect of geographic distance (maximum distance between stations similar to 4600 km) or differences between water masses on bacterial and archaeal community composition. Bacterial communities showed a clear depth zonation, whereas changes in archaeal community composition were related to temperature and FIC. The results indicate that planktonic archaeal virus host systems are a dynamic component of marine ecosystems under natural conditions.	2008	56	10.1007/s00248-007-9343-x
Takacs-Vesbach, C; Mitchell, K; Jackson-Weaver, O; Reysenbach, AL	Volcanic calderas delineate biogeographic provinces among Yellowstone thermophiles	ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	It has been suggested that the distribution of microorganisms should be cosmopolitan because of their enormous capacity for dispersal. However, recent studies have revealed that geographically isolated microbial populations do exist. Geographic distance as a barrier to dispersal is most often invoked to explain these distributions. Here we show that unique and diverse sequences of the bacterial genus Sulfurihydrogenibium exist in Yellowstone thermal springs, indicating that these sites are geographically isolated. Although there was no correlation with geographic distance or the associated geochemistry of the springs, there was a strong historical signal. We found that the Yellowstone calderas, remnants of prehistoric volcanic eruptions, delineate biogeographical provinces for the Sulfurihydrogenibium within Yellowstone (chi(2): 9.7, P = 0.002). The pattern of distribution that we have detected suggests that major geological events in the past 2 million years explain more of the variation in sequence diversity in this system than do contemporary factors such as habitat or geographic distance. These findings highlight the importance of historical legacies in determining contemporary microbial distributions and suggest that the same factors that determine the biogeography of macroorganisms are also evident among bacteria.	2008	10	10.1111/j.1462-2920.2008.01584.x
Falcon, LI; Noguez, AM; Espinosa-Asuar, L; Eguiarte, LE; Souza, V	Evidence of biogeography in surface ocean bacterioplankton assemblages	MARINE GENOMICS	Regardless of the importance of bacterial assemblages as essential components of ecosystems, little is known about how their populations are structured. We analyzed the composition and turnover rates, based on 16S rDNA sequences, of surface water oceanic bacterial assemblages of the fraction between 0.1 and 0.8 mu m along a latitudinal gradient (45 degrees 642  N in the North Atlantic to 15 degrees 837  S in the South Pacific) including geographic distance, temperature, chlorophyll a and salinity. Here we show that oceanic bacterial assemblages between 0.1 and 0.8 mu m, can be structured by a variety of environmental interactions that include separation by distance and chlorophyll a concentration in temperate North Atlantic coastal samples and temperature in tropical Atlantic and Pacific coastal and open ocean samples. Bacterial phyla composition diverged between temperate and tropical regions. This study suggests that some bacterial assemblages could be structured both by environmental and spatial factors, while others by environmental factors alone. (C) 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2008	1	10.1016/j.margen.2008.06.005
Hamilton, AK; Lovejoy, C; Galand, PE; Ingram, RG	Water masses and biogeography of picoeukaryote assemblages in a cold hydrographically complex system	LIMNOLOGY AND OCEANOGRAPHY	We investigated the influence of geographic distance, environmental variables, and water mass origin on picoeukaryote ( phytoplankton and other protists < 3 mu m) assemblages to assess the presence of biogeographic patterns. The study region was an area of converging Arctic and Atlantic currents where several distinct water masses were overlain and intersecting. Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis ( DGGE) profiles of assemblages revealed 42 distinct band types overall, with minimum richness ( 8 band types) in Arctic surface water and Atlantic deep water, and maximum richness ( 22 band types) in regions of water mass mixing. Sequencing of DGGE bands revealed that most sequences ( 78 of 98) matched uncultured clones from major taxonomic marine groups, including the Acantharea, Bacillariophyceae, Cercozoa, Chrysophyceae, Dinophyceae, Prasinophyceae, Prymnesiophyceae, and stramenopiles, as well as the novel marine stramenopiles ( MAST), alveolate groups I and II, and picobiliphytes. Multivariate statistical analysis of DGGE profiles revealed that picoeukaryote assemblage composition was positively correlated with geographic proximity, abiotic environmental conditions ( salinity, photosynthetically active radiation, and transmissivity), and biotic community structure ( total phototrophic biomass and size class). Picoeukaryote assemblage similarity was also strongly associated with water mass origin; assemblages in close spatial proximity ( horizontally or vertically) showed less similarity if located in different water masses, while spatially distant assemblages showed higher similarity if located within the same water mass. This study highlights that ocean hydrodynamics must be considered to fully explain the distribution and diversity of microbes in this fluid realm.	2008	53	10.4319/lo.2008.53.3.0922
Beier, S; Witzel, KP; Marxsen, J	Bacterial community composition in central European running waters examined by temperature gradient gel electrophoresis and sequence analysis of 16S rRNA genes	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	The bacterial community composition in small streams and a river in central Germany was examined by temperature gradient gel electrophoresis (TGGE) with PCR products of 16S rRNA gene fragments and sequence analysis. Complex TGGE band patterns suggested high levels of diversity of bacterial species in all habitats of these environments. Cluster analyses demonstrated distinct differences among the communities in stream and spring water, sandy sediments, biofilms on stones, degrading leaves, and soil. The differences between stream water and sediment were more significant than those between sites within the same habitat along the stretch from the stream source to the mouth. TGGE data from an entire stream course suggest that, in the upper reach of the stream, a special suspended bacterial community is already established and changes only slightly downstream. The bacterial communities in water and sediment in an acidic headwater with a pH below 5 were highly similar to each other but deviated distinctly from the communities at the other sites. As ascertained by nucleotide sequence analysis, stream water communities were dominated by Betaproteobacteria (one-third of the total bacteria), whereas sediment communities were composed mainly of Betaproteobacteria and members of the Fibrobacteres/Acidobacteria group (each accounting for about 25% of bacteria). Sequences obtained from bacteria from water samples indicated the presence of typical cosmopolitan freshwater organisms. TGGE bands shared between stream and soil samples, as well as sequences found in bacteria from stream samples that were related to those of soil bacteria, demonstrated the occurrence of some species in both stream and soil habitats. Changes in bacterial community composition were correlated with geographic distance along a stream, but in comparisons of different streams and rivers, community composition was correlated only with environmental conditions.	2008	74	10.1128/AEM.00327-07
Hartel, PG; Myoda, SP; Ritter, KJ; Kuntz, RL; Rodgers, K; Entry, JA; Wey, SAV; Schroder, EC; Calle, J; Lacourt, M; Thies, JE; Reilly, JP; Fuhrmann, JJ	Geographic sharing of ribotype patterns in Enterococcus faecalis for bacterial source tracking	JOURNAL OF WATER AND HEALTH	The limited host range of Enterococcus faecalis may reduce its clonal diversity and thereby increase its geographic sharing of ribotype patterns. Such sharing would be advantageous for bacterial source tracking (BST). We determined the geographic sharing of ribotype patterns in 752 Ent. faecalis isolates obtained primarily from wastewater treatment plants in Delaware (15 locations; 490 isolates), Georgia (2 locations; 48 isolates), Idaho (1 location; 118 isolates), New York (2 locations; 48 isolates), and Puerto Rico (2 locations; 48 isolates). Isolates were ribotyped with a RiboPrinter. When pooled across all locations and analyzed at a similarity index of 100% and a tolerance level of 1.00%, the 752 Ent. faecalis isolates yielded 652 different ribotypes, of which 429 (66%) were unshared. Even when the matching criterion was relaxed by decreasing the tolerance level from 1% to 10% or lowering the similarity cutoff from 100% to 90%, half or almost half of the ribotypes were unshared. A Mantel test of zero correlation showed no statistically significant correlation between ribotype patterns and geographic distance among the 32 samples (one location at one time) at either the 1.00% (P = 0.91) or 10.00% (P = 0.83) tolerance levels. Therefore, the percentage of ribotype patterns shared between two locations did not increase as the distance between locations decreased. in the case of BST, a permanent host origin database sufficiently large to encompass these ribotype patterns would be time-consuming and expensive to construct.	2007	5	10.2166/wh.2007.003
Mills, S; Lunt, DH; Gomez, A	Global isolation by distance despite strong regional phylogeography in a small metazoan	BMC EVOLUTIONARY BIOLOGY	Background: Small vagile eukaryotic organisms, which comprise a large proportion of the Earths biodiversity, have traditionally been thought to lack the extent of population structuring and geographic speciation observed in larger taxa. Here we investigate the patterns of genetic diversity, amongst populations of the salt lake microscopic metazoan Brachionus plicatilis s. s. ( sensu stricto) (Rotifera: Monogononta) on a global scale. We examine the phylogenetic relationships of geographic isolates from four continents using a 603 bp fragment of the mitochondrial COI gene to investigate patterns of phylogeographic subdivision in this species. In addition we investigate the relationship between genetic and geographic distances on a global scale to try and reconcile the paradox between the high vagility of this species and the previously reported patterns of restricted gene flow, even over local spatial scales. Results: Analysis of global sequence diversity of B. plicatilis s. s. reveals the presence of four allopatric genetic lineages: North American-Far East Asian, Western Mediterranean, Australian, and an Eastern Mediterranean lineage represented by a single isolate. Geographically orientated substructure is also apparent within the three best sampled lineages. Surprisingly, given this strong phylogeographic structure, B. plicatilis s. s. shows a significant correlation between geographic and genetic distance on a global scale (isolation by distance - IBD). Conclusion: Despite its cosmopolitan distribution and potential for high gene flow, B. plicatilis s. s. is strongly structured at a global scale. IBD patterns have traditionally been interpreted to indicate migration-drift equilibrium, although in this system equilibrium conditions are incompatible with the observed genetic structure. Instead, we suggest the pattern may have arisen through persistent founder effects, acting in a similar fashion to geographic barriers for larger organisms. Our data indicates that geographic speciation, contrary to historical views, is likely to be very important in microorganisms. By presenting compelling evidence for geographic speciation in a small eukaryote we add to the growing body of evidence that is forcing us to rethink our views of global biodiversity.	2007	7	10.1186/1471-2148-7-225
Newton, RJ; Jones, SE; Helmus, MR; McMahon, KD	Phylogenetic ecology of the freshwater Actinobacteria acI lineage	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	The acI lineage of freshwater Actinobacteria is a cosmopolitan and often numerically dominant member of lake bacterial communities. We conducted a survey of acI 16S rRNA genes and 16S-23S rRNA internal transcribed spacer regions from 18 Wisconsin lakes and used standard nonphylogenetic and phylogenetic statistical approaches to investigate the factors that determine acI community composition at the local scale (within lakes) and at the regional scale (across lakes). Phylogenetic reconstruction of 434 acI 16S rRNA genes revealed a well-defined and highly resolved phylogeny. Eleven previously unrecognized monophyletic clades, each with >= 97.9% within-clade 16S rRNA gene sequence identity, were identified. Clade community similarity positively correlated with lake environmental similarity but not with geographic distance, implying that the lakes represent a single biotic region containing environmental filters for communities that have similar compositions. Phylogenetically disparate clades within the acI lineage were most abundant at the regional scale, and local communities were comprised of more closely related clades. Lake pH was a strong predictor of the community composition, but only when lakes with a pH below 6 were included in the data set. In the remaining lakes (pH above 6) biogeographic patterns in the landscape were instead a predictor of the observed acI community structure. The nonrandom distribution of the newly defined acI clades suggests potential ecophysiological differences between the clades, with acI clades AII, BII, and BIII preferring acidic lakes and acI clades AII, AVI, and BI preferring more alkaline lakes.	2007	73	10.1128/AEM.00794-07
Fierer, N; Morse, JL; Berthrong, ST; Bernhardt, ES; Jackson, RB	Environmental controls on the landscape-scale biogeography of stream bacterial communities	ECOLOGY	We determined the biogeographical distributions of stream bacteria and the biogeochemical factors that best explained heterogeneity for 23 locations within the Hubbard Brook watershed, a 3000-ha forested watershed in New Hampshire, USA. Our goal was to assess the factor, or set of factors, responsible for generating the biogeographical patterns exhibited by microorganisms at the landscape scale. We used DNA fingerprinting to characterize bacteria inhabiting fine benthic organic matter (FBOM) because of their important influence on stream nutrient dynamics. Across the watershed, streams of similar pH had similar FBOM bacterial communities. Streamwater pH was the single variable most strongly correlated with the relative distance between communities (Spearmans p = 0.66, P < 0.00 1) although there were other contributing factors, including the quality of the fine benthic organic matter and the amount of dissolved organic carbon and nitrogen in the stream water (P < 0.05 for each). There was no evidence of an effect of geographic distance on bacterial community composition, suggesting that dispersal limitation has little influence on the observed biogeographical patterns in streams across this landscape. Cloning and sequencing of small-subunit rRNA genes confirmed the DNA fingerprinting results and revealed strong shifts among bacterial groups along the pH gradient. With an increase in streamwater pH, the abundance of acidobacteria in the FBOM bacterial community decreased (from 71% to 38%), and the abundance of proteobacteria increased (from 11% to 47%). Together these results suggest that microorganisms, like macro -organisms, do exhibit biogeographical patterns at the landscape scale and that these patterns may be predictable based on biogeochemical factors.	2007	88	10.1890/06-1746.1
Crump, BC; Adams, HE; Hobbie, JE; Kling, GW	Biogeography of bacterioplankton in lakes and streams of an arctic tundra catchment	ECOLOGY	Bacterioplankton community composition was compared across 10 lakes and 14 streams within the catchment of Toolik Lake, a tundra lake in Arctic Alaska, during seven surveys conducted over three years using denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) of PCR-amplified rDNA. Bacterioplankton communities in streams draining tundra were very different than those in streams draining lakes. Communities in streams draining lakes were similar to communities in lakes. In a connected series of lakes and streams, the stream communities changed with distance from the upstream lake and with changes in water chemistry, suggesting inoculation and dilution with bacteria from soil waters or hyporheic zones. In the same system, lakes shared similar bacterioplankton communities (78% similar) that shifted gradually down the catchment. In contrast, unconnected lakes contained somewhat different communities (67% similar). We found evidence that dispersal influences bacterioplankton communities via advection and dilution (mass effects) in streams, and via inoculation and subsequent growth in lakes. The spatial pattern of bacterioplankton community composition was strongly influenced by interactions among soil water, stream, and lake environments. Our results reveal large differences in lake-specific and stream-specific bacterial community composition over restricted spatial scales (< 10 km) and suggest that geographic distance and connectivity influence the distribution of bacterioplankton communities across a landscape.	2007	88	10.1890/06-0387
Linz, B; Balloux, F; Moodley, Y; Manica, A; Liu, H; Roumagnac, P; Falush, D; Stamer, C; Prugnolle, F; van der Merwe, SW; Yamaoka, Y; Graham, DY; Perez-Trallero, E; Wadstrom, T; Suerbaum, S; Achtman, M	An African origin for the intimate association between humans and Helicobacter pylori	NATURE	Infection of the stomach by Helicobacter pylori is ubiquitous among humans. However, although H. pylori strains from different geographic areas are associated with clear phylogeographic differentiation(1-4), the age of an association between these bacteria with humans remains highly controversial(5,6). Here we show, using sequences from a large data set of bacterial strains that, as in humans, genetic diversity in H. pylori decreases with geographic distance from east Africa, the cradle of modern humans. We also observe similar clines of genetic isolation by distance (IBD) for both H. pylori and its human host at a worldwide scale. Like humans, simulations indicate that H. pylori seems to have spread from east Africa around 58,000 yr ago. Even at more restricted geographic scales, where IBD tends to become blurred, principal component clines in H. pylori from Europe strongly resemble the classical clines for Europeans described by Cavalli-Sforza and colleagues(7). Taken together, our results establish that anatomically modern humans were already infected by H. pylori before their migrations from Africa and demonstrate that H. pylori has remained intimately associated with their human host populations ever since.	2007	445	10.1038/nature05562
Nagai, S; Lian, C; Yamaguchi, S; Hamaguchi, M; Matsuyama, Y; Itakura, S; Shimada, H; Kaga, S; Yamauchi, H; Sonda, Y; Nishikawa, T; Kim, CH; Hogetsu, T	Microsatellite markers reveal population genetic structure of the toxic dinoflagellate Alexandrium tamarense (Dinophyceae) in Japanese coastal waters	JOURNAL OF PHYCOLOGY	This is the first report to explore the fine-scale diversity, population genetic structure, and biogeography of a typical planktonic microbe in Japanese and Korean coastal waters and also to try to detect the impact of natural and human-assisted dispersals on the genetic structure and gene flow in a toxic dinoflagellate species. Here we present the genetic analysis of Alexandrium tamarense (Lebour) Balech populations from 10 sites along the Japanese and Korean coasts. We used nine microsatellite loci, which varied widely in number of alleles and gene diversity across populations. The analysis revealed that Neis genetic distance correlated significantly with geographic distance in pair-wise comparisons, and that there was genetic differentiation in about half of 45 pair-wise populations. These results clearly indicate genetic isolation among populations according to geographic distance and restricted gene flow via natural dispersal through tidal currents among the populations. On the other hand, high P-values in Fishers combined test were detected in five pair-wise populations, suggesting similar genetic structure and a close genetic relationship between the populations. These findings suggest that the genetic structure of Japanese A. tamarense populations has been disturbed, possibly by human-assisted dispersal, which has resulted in gene flow between geographically separated populations.	2007	43	10.1111/j.1529-8817.2006.00304.x
Hongoh, Y; Deevong, P; Hattori, S; Inoue, T; Noda, S; Noparatnaraporn, N; Kudo, T; Ohkuma, M	Phylogenetic diversity, localization, and cell morphologies of members of the candidate phylum TG3 and a subphylum in the phylum Fibrobacteres, recently discovered bacterial groups dominant in termite guts	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Recently we discovered two novel, deeply branching lineages in the domain Bacteria from termite guts by PCR-based analyses of 16S rRNA (Y. Hongoh, P. Deevong, T. Inoue, S. Moriya, S. Trakulnaleamsai, M. Ohkuma, C. Vongkaluang, N. Noparatnaraporn, and T. Kudo, Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 71:6590-6599, 2005). Here, we report on the specific detection of these bacteria, the candidate phylum TG3 (Termite Group 3) and a subphylum in the phylum Fibrobacteres, by fluorescence in situ hybridization in the guts of the wood-feeding termites Microcerotermes sp. and Nasutitermes takasagoensis. Both bacterial groups were detected almost exclusively from the luminal fluid of the dilated portion in the hindgut. Each accounted for approximately 10% of the total prokaryotic cells, constituting the second-most dominant groups in the whole-gut microbiota. The detected cells of both groups were in undulate or vibroid forms and apparently resembled small spirochetes. The cell sizes were 0.2 to 0.4 by 1.3 to 6.0 mu m and 0.2 to 0.3 by 1.3 to 4.9 mu m in the TG3 and Fibrobacteres, respectively. Using PCR screenings with specific primers, we found that both groups are distributed among various termites. The obtained clones formed monophyletic clusters that were delineated by the host genus rather than by the geographic distance, implying a robust association between these bacteria and host termites. TG3 clones were also obtained from a cockroach gut, lake sediment, rice paddy soil, and deep-sea sediments. Our results suggest that the TG3 and Fibrobacteres bacteria are autochthonous gut symbionts of various termites and that the TG3 members are also widely distributed among various other environments.	2006	72	10.1128/AEM.00891-06
Green, J; Bohannan, BJM	Spatial scaling of microbial biodiversity	TRENDS IN ECOLOGY & EVOLUTION	A central goal in ecology is to understand the spatial scaling of biodiversity. Patterns in the spatial distribution of organisms provide important clues about the underlying mechanisms that structure ecological communities and are central to setting conservation priorities. Although microorganisms comprise much of Earths biodiversity, little is known about their biodiversity scaling relationships relative to that for plants and animals. Here, we discuss current knowledge of microbial diversity at local and global scales. We focus on three spatial patterns: the distance-decay relationship (how community composition changes with geographic distance), the taxa-area relationship, and the local: global taxa richness ratio. Recent empirical analyses of these patterns for microorganisms suggest that there are biodiversity scaling rules common to all forms of life.	2006	21	10.1016/j.tree.2006.06.012
Fierer, N; Jackson, RB	The diversity and biogeography of soil bacterial communities	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	For centuries, biologists have studied patterns of plant and animal diversity at continental scales. Until recently, similar studies were impossible for microorganisms, arguably the most diverse and abundant group of organisms on Earth. Here, we present a continental-scale description of soil bacterial communities and the environmental factors influencing their biodiversity. We collected 98 soil samples from across North and South America and used a ribosomal DNA-fingerprinting method to compare bacterial community composition and diversity quantitatively across sites. Bacterial diversity was unrelated to site temperature, latitude, and other variables that typically predict plant and animal diversity, and community composition was largely independent of geographic distance. The diversity and richness of soil bacterial communities differed by ecosystem type, and these differences could largely be explained by soil pH (r(2) = 0.70 and r(2) = 0.58, respectively; P < 0.0001 in both cases). Bacterial diversity was highest in neutral soils and lower in acidic soils, with soils from the Peruvian Amazon the most acidic and least diverse in our study. Our results suggest that microbial biogeography is controlled primarily by edaphic variables and differs fundamentally from the biogeography of macro organisms.	2006	103	10.1073/pnas.0507535103
Horner-Devine, MC; Lage, M; Hughes, JB; Bohannan, BJM	A taxa-area relationship for bacteria	NATURE	A positive power-law relationship between the number of species in an area and the size of that area has been observed repeatedly in plant and animal communities(1). This species - area relationship, thought to be one of the few laws in ecology(2), is fundamental to our understanding of the distribution of global biodiversity. However, such a relationship has not been reported for bacteria, and little is known regarding the spatial distribution of bacteria, relative to what is known of plants and animals(3). Here we describe a taxa - area relationship for bacteria over a scale of centimetres to hundreds of metres in salt marsh sediments. We found that bacterial communities located close together were more similar in composition than communities located farther apart, and we used the decay of community similarity with distance to show that bacteria can exhibit a taxa - area relationship. This relationship was driven primarily by environmental heterogeneity rather than geographic distance or plant composition.	2004	432	10.1038/nature03073
Oliver, I; Holmes, A; Dangerfield, JM; Gillings, M; Pik, AJ; Britton, DR; Holley, M; Montgomery, ME; Raison, M; Logan, V; Pressey, RL; Beattie, AJ	Land systems as surrogates for biodiversity in conservation planning	ECOLOGICAL APPLICATIONS	Environmental surrogates (land classes) for the distribution of biodiversity are increasingly being used for conservation planning. However; data that demonstrate coincident patterns in land classes and biodiversity are limited. We ask the overall question, Are land systems effective surrogates for the spatial configuration of biodiversity for conservation planning? and we address three specific questions: (1) Do different land systems represent different biological assemblages.? (2) Do biological assemblages on the same land system remain similar with increasing geographic separation? and (3) Do biological assemblages on the same land system remain similar with increasing land system isolation? Vascular plants, invertebrates, and microbiota were surveyed from 24 sites in four land systems in and northwest New South Wales, Australia. Within each land system, sites were located to give a hierarchy of inter-site distances, and land systems were classified as either low isolation (large and continuous) or high isolation (small patches interspersed among other land systems). Each type of land system supported components of biodiversity either not found, or found infrequently, on other land systems, suggesting that land systems function as surrogates for biodiversity, and that conservation-area networks representing land-system diversity will also represent biological diversity. However, the majority of taxa were found on more than one land-system type, suggesting that a large proportion of the plant, arthropod, and microbial biodiversity may be characterized by widespread species with low fidelity to particular land systems. Significant relationships between geographic distance among sites and differences among assemblages were revealed for all taxa except the microbiota. Therefore, as sites on the same land system were located farther apart, the assemblages at those sites became more different. This finding strongly suggests that conservation planning based on land-system diversity should also sample the geographic range occupied by each land system. Land-system isolation was not revealed to be a significant Source of variation in assemblage composition. Our research finds support for environmental surrogates for biodiversity in conservation planning, specifically the use of land systems and similarly derived land classifications. However, the need for explicit modeling of geographic distance in conservation planning is clearly indicated.	2004	14	10.1890/02-5181
Zhong, Y; Chen, F; Wilhelm, SW; Poorvin, L; Hodson, RE	Phylogenetic diversity of marine cyanophage isolates and natural virus communities as revealed by sequences of viral capsid assembly protein gene g20	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	In order to characterize the genetic diversity and phylogenetic affiliations of marine cyanophage isolates and natural cyanophage assemblages, oligonucleotide primers CPS1 and CPS8 were designed to specifically amplify ca. 592-bp fragments of the gene for viral capsid assembly protein g20. Phylogenetic analysis of isolated cyanophages revealed that the marine cyanophages were highly diverse yet more closely related to each other than to enteric coliphage T4. Genetically related marine cyanophage isolates were widely distributed without significant geographic segregation (i.e., no correlation between genetic variation and geographic distance). Cloning and sequencing analysis of six natural virus concentrates from estuarine and oligotrophic offshore environments revealed nine phylogenetic groups in a total of 114 different g20 homologs, with up to six clusters and 29 genotypes encountered in a single sample. The composition and structure of natural cyanophage communities in the estuary and open-ocean samples were different from each other, with unique phylogenetic clusters found for each environment. Changes in clonal diversity were also observed from the surface waters to the deep chlorophyll maximum laver in the open ocean. Only three clusters contained known cyanophage isolates, while the identities of the other six clusters remain unknown. Whether or not these unidentified groups are composed of bacteriophages that infect different Synechococcus groups or other closely related cyanobacteria remains to be determined. The high genetic diversity of marine cyanophage assemblages revealed by the g20 sequences suggests that marine viruses can potentially play important roles in regulating microbial genetic diversity.	2002	68	10.1128/AEM.68.4.1576-1584.2002
Webster, NS; Hill, RT	The culturable microbial community of the Great Barrier Reef sponge Rhopaloeides odorabile is dominated by an alpha-Proteobacterium	MARINE BIOLOGY	The microbial community cultured from the marine sponge Rhopaloeides odorabile Thompson et al. is dominated by a single bacterium, designated strain NW001. Sequence analysis of 1212 bp of the 16S rRNA gene of strain NW001 indicates that it is a member of the a-subgroup of the class Proteobacteria. The association between this bacterium and its host sponge was observed in healthy R. odorabile collected from six different reefs in the Great Barrier Reef representing a geographic distance of 460 km, and in four collections in different seasons in 1997-1998 at Davies Reef (18 degrees 49.6S; 147 degrees 34.49E). The proportion of colonies of strain NW001 in samples from R. odorabile, expressed as a percentage of the total heterotrophic bacterial colony count, showed no significant spatial (range: 81-98%b) or temporal differences (range: 81-99%), although colony counts of strain NW001 varied by up to two orders of magnitude between reef sites and sampling periods, The location of strain NW001 within the sponge mesohyl was visualized by in situ hybridization, using fluorescently labeled probes based on the 16S rRNA gene sequence of this strain. Cells of strain NW001 surround the choanocyte chambers, suggesting that these bacteria may play a role in nutrient uptake by the sponge, The absence of strain NW001 from corresponding seawater samples indicates that it has a specific, intimate relationship with R. odorabile and is not being utilized as a food source. A unique cyanobacterium related to the genera Leptolyngbya and Plectonema was also isolated from R. odorabile and characterized by 16S rRNA gene sequencing.	2001	138	10.1007/s002270000503
Cho, JC; Tiedje, JM	Biogeography and degree of endemicity of fluorescent Pseudomonas strains in soil	APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY	Fluorescent Pseudomonas strains were isolated from 38 undisturbed pristine soil samples from 10 sites on four continents, A total of 248 isolates were confirmed as Pseudomonas sensu stricto by fluorescent pigment production and group-specific 16S ribosomal DNA (rDNA) primers, These isolates were analyzed by three molecular typing methods with different levels of resolution: 16S rDNA restriction analysis (ARDRA), 16S-23S rDNA intergenic spacer-restriction fragment length polymorphism (ITS-RFLP) analysis, and repetitive extragenic palindromic PCR genomic fingerprinting with a BOX primer set (BOX-PCR), All isolates showed very similar ARDRA patterns, as expected. Some ITS-RFLP types were also found at every geographic scale, although some ITS-RFLP types were unique to the site of origin, indicating weak endemicity at this level of resolution. Using a similarity value of 0.8 or more after cluster analysis of BOX-PCR fingerprinting patterns to define the same genotypes, we identified 85 unique fluorescent Pseudomonas genotypes in our collection, There were no overlapping genotypes between sites as well as continental regions, indicating strict site endemism, The genetic distance between isolates as determined by degree of dissimilarity in BOX-PCR patterns was meaningfully correlated to the geographic distance between the isolates sites of origin, Also, a significant positive spatial autocorrelation of the distribution of the genotypes was observed among distances of <197 km, and significant negative autocorrelation was observed between regions. Hence, strong endemicity of fluorescent Pseudomonas genotypes was observed, suggesting that these heterotrophic soil bacteria are not globally mixed.	2000	66	10.1128/AEM.66.12.5448-5456.2000
Zwart, G; Hiorns, WD; Methe, BA; Van Agterveld, MP; Huismans, R; Nold, SC; Zehr, JP; Laanbroek, HJ	Nearly identical 16S rRNA sequences recovered from lakes in North America and Europe indicate the existence of clades of globally distributed freshwater bacteria	SYSTEMATIC AND APPLIED MICROBIOLOGY	We compared bacterial 16S ribosomal RNA gene sequences recovered from Lake Loosdrecht, the Netherlands, to reported sequences from lakes in Alaska and New York State. In each of the three lake systems, which differ in pH and trophic state, some sequence types were found without related sequences (sequence identity <90%) in the data sets from the other two systems. Two sequences in the Actinomycetes and Verrucomicrobia radiations were more closely related to sequences from the New York: lakes data set than to any other sequence in the global databases. However, the most striking similarities were found in the subdivisions alpha and beta of the Proteobacteria. In these subdivisions three different clusters of highly related bacteria were identified (97-100% sequence identity) that were represented in all three lake regions. The clusters contained no members other than freshwater bacteria. One cluster falls within a monophyletic aquatic supergroup that apparently diverged early in evolution into an exclusive freshwater cluster and an exclusive marine cluster, the so-called SAR11 cluster. The detection of these three bacterial clades in lakes distinguished by geographic distance as well as physical and chemical diversity suggests that these organisms are dispersed globally and that they possess unique functional capabilities enabling successful competition in a wide range of freshwater environments.	1998	21	
Ebert, D; Zschokke-Rohringer, CD; Carius, HJ	Within- and between-population variation for resistance of Daphnia magna to the bacterial endoparasite Pasteuria ramosa	PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY B-BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES	Genetic variation among hosts for resistance to parasites is an important assumption underlying evolutionary theory of host and parasite evolution. Using the castrating bacterial parasite Pasteuria ramosa and its cladoceran host Daphnia magna, we examined both within- and between-population genetic variation for resistance. First, we tested hosts from four populations for genetic variation for resistance to three parasite isolates. Allozyme analysis revealed significant host population divergence and that genetic distance corresponds to geographic distance. Host and parasite fitness components showed strong genetic differences between parasite isolates for host population by parasite interactions and for clones within populations, whereas host population effects were significant for only a few traits. In a second experiment we tested explicitly for within-population differences in variation for resistance by challenging nine host clones from a single population with four different parasite spore doses. Strong clone and dose effects were evident. More susceptible clones also suffered higher costs once infected. The results indicate that within-population variation for resistance is high relative to between-population variation. We speculate that P. ramosa adapts to individual host clones rather than to its host population.	1998	265	
Wilkinson, HH; Spoerke, JM; Parker, MA	Divergence in symbiotic compatibility in a legume-Bradyrhizobium mutualism	EVOLUTION	Geographic variation in the mutualism between the legume Amphicarpaea bracteata and its nitrogen-fixing root nodule bacteria (Bradyrhizobium sp.) was analyzed by sampling genotypes from 11 sites separated by distances ranging from 0.6 km to more than 1000 km. Cross inoculation experiments revealed that plants were genetically differentiated in traits determining compatibility with mutualist partners from different sites. Combinations of plant and bacterial genotypes native to the same local habitat yielded 26% higher plant growth relative to non-native combinations (range across 4 experiments; 9% to 48%). Among non-native symbioses, plant growth was unrelated to the geographic distance between sites of plant and bacterial origin. However, compatibility varied significantly with the genetic distance among host populations (inferred by multilocus enzyme electrophoresis): genetically similar plants from separate sites showed superior growth with each others mutualist partners. Nevertheless, the tree structure of population genetic similarity was not congruent in plants versus bacteria. This implies that adaptive variation in symbiotic compatibility has evolved without strictly parallel divergence in the two species.	1996	50	10.2307/2410884
SMITH, AM; KLUGMAN, KP; COFFEY, TJ; SPRATT, BG	GENETIC DIVERSITY OF PENICILLIN-BINDING PROTEIN-2B AND PROTEIN-2X GENES FROM STREPTOCOCCUS-PNEUMONIAE IN SOUTH-AFRICA	ANTIMICROBIAL AGENTS AND CHEMOTHERAPY	Streptococcus pneumoniae (the pneumococcus) is believed to have developed resistance to penicillin by the production of altered forms of penicillin-binding proteins (PBPs) that have decreased affinity for penicillin. Sixty-eight clinical isolates of serogroup 6 and 19 pneumococci (MICs, <0.015 to 8 mug/ml) were randomly selected from hospitals across South Africa which are at substantial geographic distance from each other. The polymerase chain reaction was used to isolate the penicillin-binding domain of PBPs 2B and 2X from the chromosomal DNAs of the bacteria; the purified PBP DNA was digested with restriction enzymes, the fragments were end-labelled and separated on polyacrylamide gels, and the DNA fingerprints were visualized following autoradiography. Fingerprint analysis revealed that at least 19 PBP 2B gene variants occur in the serogroup 6 and 19 pneumococci. The PBP 2B gene revealed a uniform profile among penicillin-susceptible isolates, with variation from this profile occurring only in isolates for which MICs were greater-than-or-equal-to 0.06 mug/ml. Analysis of the PBP 2X gene revealed a greater diversity in the population with 26 variant genes, including some diversity among susceptible isolates. Discrete profiles of both genes were found only within narrow bands of the penicillin MIC, so that the gene pattern predicted the MIC. PBP 2X gene variation and the lack of variability among PBP 2B genes in pneumococci inhibited at low MICs confirm that PBP 2X alteration may be responsible for low-level penicillin resistance, while alterations in both PBP 2B and PBP 2X are required for high-level resistance. The extensive diversity of PBP genes in South African serogroup 6 and 19 strains suggests that altered PBP genes have arisen frequently in this population.	1993	37	
SABATER, F; MEYER, JL; EDWARDS, RT	LONGITUDINAL PATTERNS OF DISSOLVED ORGANIC-CARBON CONCENTRATION AND SUSPENDED BACTERIAL DENSITY ALONG A BLACKWATER RIVER	BIOGEOCHEMISTRY	Dissolved organic carbon (DOC) is the dominant form of carbon in transport in blackwater rivers, and bacteria are the major biological agents of its utilization. This study describes longitudinal patterns in DOC concentration and relates them to suspended bacterial populations in the channel. Concentrations of total DOC, three molecular weight fractions, and bacterial numbers were determined at 12 sites along the Ogeechee River in 1985-86 and 1989 during periods of low and high discharge. Suspended bacterial populations were compared with DOC concentrations to determine if differences in bacterial abundance were related to longitudinal patterns of DOC concentration. Three distinct longitudinal patterns were observed: (1) The longitudinal pattern followed by both total and intermediate molecular weight DOC concentrations was a linear function of the geographic distance along the river. (2) During low flow conditions, there was a high degree of correspondence between patterns of bacterial numbers and low MW DOC (< 1000 apparent MW). (3) During periods of high discharge, the proportion of high (> 10,000) and intermediate (1000-10,000) MW fractions increased, and there was no longer a clear relationship between bacterial cells and low MW DOC.	1993	21	10.1007/BF00000872
